HUMANS

Humans dominate the Core Worlds and can be 
found in virtually every corner of the galaxy. They 
are   the   ancestors   of   early   spacefaring   pioneers, 
conquerors,   traders,   travelers,   and 
refugees. Humans have always been 
people on the move. As a result, they 
can be found on almost every inhabit­
ed planet. As a species, Humans are physi­
cally, culturally, and politically diverse. Hardy or 
fine, light-skinned or dark, Humans remain one 
of the most dominant species throughout all eras 
of play.

Personality:  Human   personality   runs   the 
gamut of possibilities, though members of this 
species tend to be highly adaptable, tenacious, 
and willing to keep striving no matter the odds. 
They  are flexible and  ambitious,  diverse in their 
tastes, morals, customs, and habits.

Physical  Description:  Humans average about 
1.8 meters tall. Skin shades run from nearly black 
to very pale, hair from black to blond. Men are 
usually taller and heavier than women. Humans achieve maturi­
ty about the age of 15 and rarely live beyond 100.

Homeworlds:  Various, including Coruscant, Corellia, Naboo, 

Tatooine, and Alderaan.

Languages: Humans speak, read, and write Basic. They often 

 REPUBLIC CLONE

learn other languages as well, including obscure ones.

Attribute Dice: Add 2D to the stats below, without adding more than 

Example Names: Anakin, Ben, Biggs, Boba, Han, Lando, Leia, 

Luke, Mara, Owen, Padmé, Talon, Wedge, Winter.

Adventurers:  Humans   aren’t   afraid   to   try   anything,   and 
Human adventurers the most audacious, daring, and ambitious 
members   of   an   audacious,   daring,   and   ambitious   species.   A 
Human can earn glory by amassing power, wealth, and fame. 
More than any other species, Humans champion causes rather 
than territories or groups.

 HUMANS

Attribute Dice: 12D
DEXTERITY 2D/4D
KNOWLEDGE 2D/4D
MECHANICAL 2D/4D
PERCEPTION 2D/4D
STRENGTH 2D/4D
TECHNICAL 2D/4D
Move: 10/12
Size: 1.5-2.0 meters tall

Near-Humans

Human-derived   species,   called   “near-humans,”   are   remark­
ably similar to baseline humans, but due to local environments 
have evolved unique adaptations to their surroundings.

The appearances of near-human’s can vary wildly. While most 
near-humans   have   the   same   game   stats   as   normal   humans, 
some near-human races will have different attribute minimums 
and maximums, or possibly special abilities. Physical traits will 
also   be   markedly   different,   and   can   provide   hints   about   the 
individual’s   home   planet.   (For   example,   squat   and   muscular 
near-humans may come from a high-gravity environment; dark-
skinned near-humans may come from a planet with high expo­
sure to ultraviolet radiation; and so forth.)

Near-human   species   often   have   unique,   or   minor   special 
abilities which set them apart from the standard Human game 
statistics.

Republic Clone

The basic clone trooper is bred for obedience and military 
discipline.   This   can   stifle   players   who   want   more   free   will. 
Instead, the player could choose to play  and ARC Trooper or 
Republic   clone   commando; 
both   unit   types   are   clones 
based on the original  Jango 
Fett template, but they have 
more   of   Fett’s   personality 
and fewer behavioral restric­
tions   than   standard   clone 
troopers. They receive special 
training   better   suited   to 
heroic   careers,   and   many 
have   destinies   that   stretch 
out  beyond the Clone Wars. 
Note that this set of stats is 
for  use by  player characters 
or   major   gamemaster   char­
acters.   For   “average”   clones 
gamemaster   characters,   see 
the “Gamemaster Characters” 
chapter.

2 pips to any single attribute.

DEXTERITY 3D
KNOWLEDGE 2D+1
MECHANICAL 2D+2
PERCEPTION 2D+1
STRENGTH 3D
TECHNICAL 2D+1
Special Abilities:
Military  Training:  All   clones   go   through   intensive   military   training 
throughout   their   formative   years.   At   character   creation   only, 
clone characters receive an extra 2D to spend on military-related 
skills.
Story Factors:
Obedient: Clones are conditioned to obey their superior’s orders with­

out question, loyally following the chain of command.

Accelerated Growth: Clones age twice as fast as normal humans.
Move: 10/12
Size: 1.83 meters tall

ERA NOTES: SPECIES

Nonhuman   characters   have   some   restrictions   placed 
upon them, depending on the era in which your campaign 
is   set.   The   restrictions   for   the   more   popular   eras   are 
described below.

The Old Republic, Rise of the Empire and The Dark 
Times  (1,000  to  0  years   before  Episode  IV).  During  the 
time that saw the erosion of the Old Republic and the rise 
of the Empire, including the period around Episodes I-III, 
all species participated in a more or less cosmopolitan gal­
axy.   The   only   restrictions   on   your   choice   of   an   alien 
species in this time frame refer to species that have not 
yet “been discovered” by the galaxy at large. Ewoks, there­
fore, are not available if your campaign is set in this era.

The   Rebellion  (0   to   5   years   after   Episode   IV).   The 
Empire was particularly entrenched with anti-alien senti­
ments. During this period of galactic history, most alien 
species were either enslaved or subjugated by the Empire. 
In the Outer Rim, nonhuman species continued to carry 
on their lives as normally as they were able, but in the 
more civilized regions, non-humans were relegated to the 
status  of  second-class  citizens  —   or worse.  Many  aliens 
joined   the   Rebellion,   fighting   alongside   humans   in   an 
effort to throw off the shackles of oppression and tyranny. 
Ewoks show up late in this era, during the Battle of Endor, 
and  free   Wookiees   rarely  appear  due   to  their   status   as 
slaves of the Empire.

The New Republic (5 to 25 years after Episode IV). Late 
in this era, with the decline of the Empire and the birth of 
the New Republic, non-humans once again take a promi­
nent and equal role in the affairs of the galaxy.

The   New   Jedi   Order   and   beyond  (25+   years   after 
Episode IV). All alien species are available without restric­
tion  in  this  time  frame.  The  era  is  marked  by  the  New 
Republic’s battle against the Yuuzhan Vong invaders and 
tainted by growing distrust of the Jedi Knights.

ANZAT

Almost   every   culture   in   the   galaxy   has   a   legend   about 
immortal creatures  that lurk in the shadows, existing only to 
feed upon the unwary. And in most cases, the Anzati are the 
monsters   of  those   legends.   They   have   roamed   the   galaxy   for 
eons,   cunning   predators   hidden   amid   the   crowd,   capable   of 
invisibly and efficiently tracking, killing, and feeding on their 
prey,  taking  nourishment  from  their  victims’  life  energy  con­
tained within the gelid substance they call  soup. Despite their 
long life span, few Anzati are expert scholars, and although they 
indulge   in   different   pastimes   throughout   their   lives,   Anzati 
rarely pursue skills that do not directly relate to the hunt.

Personality:  For Anzati, the hunt for soup is their primary 
goal, and they pursue it with the devotion of an addict craving 
the next fix. The common belief is that Anzati view all others as 
mere livestock, but only the most decadent Anzati subscribe to 
this view. However, Anzati do enjoy the perverse joke that form­
ing friendships with other
species is akin to playing with their food.

Physical Description: Although 
their appearance is similar to that 
of Humans, the Anzati are an 
unusual species, and are most 
noted for their lack of a readily 
detectable pulse and for 
their low body temperature. 
An Anzat’s other distinguishing 
physical trait is a pair of 
cheek pouches, each of 
which conceals a proboscis 
that extends for feeding.

Homeworld: Anzati are
native to Anzat, a mountainous
world located in the Mid Rim.
The planet’s sky is covered in an aurora that has deep religious 
significance for the Anzati.

Languages: Anzati speak Anzat, an ancient language known 

only to them.

Example Names: Akku Seii, Dannik Jerriko, Nikkos Tyris, Rath 

Kelk ko, Salje Tasha, Volfe Karkko.

Adventurers:  Due   to   their   predatory   nature,   Anzati   find 
themselves   drawn   to   the   professions   of   assassin   and   bounty 
hunter, which enable them to hunt for nourishment. It is the 
rare Anzat that does not shun the morality of the Jedi Knights, 
although Force users are not uncommon among the Anzati.

 ANZAT

Attribute Dice: 14D
DEXTERITY 2D/5D
KNOWLEDGE 1D+1/4D
MECHANICAL 1D+1/4D
PERCEPTION 2D/4D
STRENGTH 2D/5D
TECHNICAL 1D+1/4D
Special Abilities:
Anzati Tracking:  Anzati are able to sense the Force in others, and 
each is automatically considered Force-sensitive and possessing 
of the  Sense  Force  skill. When tracking prey, Anzati oftentimes 
use   Force   powers   such as  Life  Detection,  Life   Sense, Receptive  
Telepathy, Sense Force, and Sense Force Potential.

Long-lived: Anzati are practically immortal, and can live for eons.
Stealthy:  Because   they  must   secretly   hunt   sentient   beings,   Anzati 
have grown adept at maintaining their stealth and secrecy. This is 
reflected in a +1D bonus to their hide and sneak skills.

Vampires:  The Anzati feed from living beings: for every turn spent 
feeding,   2   pips   are   subtracted   from   the   victim’s  Knowledge, 
Mechanical,  Perception,   and  Technical  attributes.   If   any   one 
attribute is reduced to 0 or less, the victim dies. The damage to 
the attributes is permanent, and reduces skills accordingly.

Move: 10/12
Size: 1.6-1.8 meters tall

AQUALISH

The Aqualish are tusked bipeds from the 

planet   Ando,   whose   appearance   com­
bined aspects of arachnids and pinniped 
aquatic mammals. Aqualish have a rep­
utation   for   being   nasty,   crude   and 
aggressive, and generally pursue off-
world careers as mercenaries, bounty 
hunters, and pirates.

Personality:  As   a   species,   the 
Aqualish have nasty, belligerent disposi­
tions and a tendency towards violence. 
Their desire for revenge is usually 
well-developed.   The   Aquala   hate 
their Quara relatives, which is char­
acteristic   of   each   of   the   subspecies 
shared   hatred   of   each   other   as   they   all 
believe their race to be the most superior. 

Physical   Description:  Th   Aqualish   people   are   made   up   of 
three distinct races which included the Aquala, the Ualaq and 
the Quara. Although they all have their differences, their base­
line genetic structure is the same and their appearances do not  
vary so drastically as to characterize them as different species. 
All Aqualish have two facial tusks which curve down over their 
mouths; a  trait which  adds  to their appearance as arachnids. 
These facial tusks are highly sensitive to heat and cold.

The Aquala subspecies is considered to be the baseline Aqual­
ish breed. Having finned hands and two bulbous black eyes, the 
Aquala are unable to manipulate most machinery or equipment 
developed by species with fingered hands. As a result, Aquala 
tend to remain  on  their  homeworld  in  greater  numbers  than 
either of the other subspecies.

The Quara have developed clawed, five-fingered hands and 
like the Aquala have two eyes. Combined with the Ualaq, the  
Quara make up only ten percent of the Aqualish population. This 
is largely due to their ability to use equipment designed off-
world for fingered species. Thus, they are the subspecies more 
commonly found off-world.

The Ualaq, considered by some specialists to be the result of 
genetic mutation, have four eyes instead of two and fingered 
hands which vary from three to five digits on each. As the least 
common   subspecies,   the   Ualaq   often   times   journey   far   from 
Ando to avoid discrimination by the Aquala.

Homeworld:  Aqualish   are   native   to   Ando,   a   mountainous 
world located in the Mid Rim. The planet’s sky is covered in an  
aurora that has deep religious significance for the Anzati.

Languages:  All   three   Aqualish   subspecies   speak   mutually 

intelligible dialects of the same language, Aqualish.

Example Names: Gorothin Vaggar, Po Nudo, Ponda Baba.

Adventurers: While Aqualish are rare in the galaxy, they can 
easily   find   employment   as   mercenaries,   bounty   hunters,   and 
bodyguards. In addition, many of the more intelligent members 
of the species are able to control their violent tendencies, and 
channel   their   belligerence   into   a   stead   fast   determination, 
allowing them to function as adequate, though seldom talented, 
clerks   and   administrators   in   a   variety   of   fields.   A   very   few 
Aqualish — those who can totally subvert their aggressive ten­
dencies — have actually become extremely talented marine biol­
ogists and aqua-scientists.

 AQUALISH

Attribute Dice: 12D
DEXTERITY 2D/4D
KNOWLEDGE 1D/3D
MECHANICAL 1D+2/3D+2
PERCEPTION 2D/4D
STRENGTH 2D/4D+2
TECHNICAL 1D+2/3D
Special Abilities:
Fins: Aqualish are born with the natural ability to swim. They receive 
a +2D bonus for all movement attempted in liquids. However, the 
lack of fingers on their hands decreases their  Dexterity, and the 
Aqualish suffer a −2D penalty when using equipment that has not 
been specially designed for its fins.

Hands: The Quara and Ualaq do not receive the swimming bonus, but 
they   are   just   as   “at   home”  in  the   water.  They  also   receive   no 
penalties for  Dexterity  actions. The Ualaq are most likely to be 
encountered off-world.

Story Factors:
Belligerence: Aqualish tend to be pushy and obnoxious, always look­
ing for the opportunity to bully weaker beings. More intelligent 
Aqualish turn this belligerence into cunning and become manipu­
lators.

Move: 9/12 (walking), 5/7 (swimming, Aquala only)
Size: 1.8-2 meters tall

BARABEL

A  towering  reptilian  species, the Barabel  are relative new­
comers to the galactic community. Having evolved from noctur­
nal predators, Barabels are well-suited to cope with prolonged 
periods of darkness, and they retain much of their ancestors’ 
ferocity. 

Several centuries prior to the formation of the
Empire — at least according to Barabel
legend — an Ithorian Jedi explorer named
Noga-ta came to their world and
peacefully settled a millennium-
long civil war stemming from a
dispute over prime hunting
grounds. This instills a high regard
for the Jedi in all Barabel for cen-
turies to follow, even in the
wake of the Galactic Empire’s
anti-Jedi propaganda. For a
short time, the Barabels were
hunted by illegal safaris set up
by Imperial-backed Planetary
Safaris, but a massed uprising by
the Barabels compelled the
Empire to intervene and put
a stop to the hunts.

Off   world,   Barabels   take   up   professions   that   make   use   of 
their predatory nature, the most common being bounty hunting. 
Surprisingly,   Barabels   willingly   follow   orders   once   a   chain   of 
command is clearly established, making them prized members of 
mercenary units. They carry out orders efficiently and quickly, 
but they are not hesitant to challenge a leader if their survival is 
threatened. Barabels are also frequent and popular participants 
in   the   sport   of   shockboxing.   The   monstrous   brute   Tull   Raine 
holds the Outer Rim title for years, developing a reputation for 
killing opponents in the ring.

Personality:  Barabels are ruthlessly pragmatic and indepen­
dent. They express a wide range of emotions with a simple “siss­
ing” sound, causing other races to view them as mean spirited or 
at least constantly angry. Barabels’ aggressive nature and preda­
tory instincts frequently lead them to solve problems with the 
direct approach, and they have no qualms about killing. 

Physical Description: Barabels are towering bipeds with rep­
tilian features: a prominent jaw; sharp teeth; a long tail; and 
remarkably tough, dark scales. Barabels are between 1.9 and 2.2 
meters in height, adding to their fearsome reputation.

Homeworld: Barab I.

Languages:  Barabel   and   those   who   have   spent   time   off-

world are likely to speak Basic.

Example   Names:  Baraduk,   Ragath,   Saba,   Shaka-ka,   Tesar, 

Tibor, Vangar.

Adventurers:  Few Barabels chose to leave their homeworld, 
but those who do usually become bounty hunters and trackers. 
Others   are   recruited   into   mercenary   companies,   and   several 
shockboxing promoters feature Barabels in their stables.

 BARABEL

Attribute Dice: 12D
DEXTERITY 2D/4D
KNOWLEDGE 1D/2D+1
MECHANCIAL 1D/3D
PERCEPTION 1D+1/4D+2
STRENGTH 3D/5D
TECHNICAL 1D/2D+1
Special Abilities:
Natural Body Armor:  The black scales of the Barabel act as armor, 
providing a +2D bonus against physical attacks, and a +1D bonus 
against energy attacks.

Radiation Resistance: Because of the proximity of their homeworld to 
its sun, the  Barabel have evolved a natural resistance to most 
forms   of  radiation.   They receive  a  +2D   bonus   when  defending 
against the effects of radiation.

Vision: Barabels can see infrared radiation, giving them the ability to 
see in compete darkness, provided there are heat differentials in 
the environment.

Story Factors:
Jedi   Respect:  Barabels   have   a  deep   respect   for   Jedi   Knights,   even 
though they have little aptitude for sensing the Force. They will 
almost always yield to the commands of a Jedi Knight (or a being 
that represents itself believably as a Jedi). Naturally, they are ene­
mies of the enemies of Jedi (or those who impersonate Jedi).

Reputation:  Barabels   are   reputed   to   be   fierce   warriors   and   great 
hunters,   and   they  are   often  feared.   Those   who   know   of   them 
almost always steer clear of them.

Move: 11/14
Size: 1.9-2.2 meters tall

BITH

Bith have been part of the Galactic

Republic for thousands of years.
Intellectually advanced humanoids,
Bith have over-sized brains evolved to
handle abstract skills such as lan-
guage, mathematics, music, and
scientific analysis. This fundamental
shift to the intellect has caused brain
functions related to instinct and bio-
logical drives to diminish. Their greater
brainpower also means that Bith need
to spend only four hours in a meditative
trance to regain the energy that most
species require eight hours to recover.

As a culture, Bith find the concept of 

warfare abhorrent, and most are pacifists. During the time of 
the Republic, the Bith are one of the loudest proponents for 
finding diplomatic solutions and for banning weapons and the 
industries of war. This pacifistic streak has roots in the Bith’s  
past,   when   competition   between   two   major   corporations   got 
out of hand, resulting in the release of a biological weapon that 
turned the surface of Clak’dor VII into an ecological wasteland. 
The survivors consequently sealed their cities in immense domes, 
while many ambitious Bith left their homeworld to travel the 
galaxy. During the time of the Clone Wars, the Bith hole up in 
their domed cities, remaining neutral and trying to ride out the 
worst of the fighting. Their wholesale return to galactic society 
does not occur until well into the time of the New Republic.

Bith   are   highly   sought   after   in   a   wide   variety   of   fields, 
including engineering, programming, education, commercial art, 
and, most importantly, ship design. Music is a vital and revered 
pursuit   in   Bith   society.   Bith   musicians   are   relatively   common 
(and welcome) and can be found playing in extravagant opera 
houses, seedy cantinas, and everything in between.

Personality: Bith are calm and rational, with a natural talent 
for technical and intellectual pursuits. Despite (or as a result of)  
its violent past, Bith culture is pacifistic. Individual Bith, howev­
er, run the range of demeanor, but most Bith lean toward using 
nonaggression to overcome difficulties. All Bith are stimulated 
by intellectual problems and artistic endeavors.

Physical Description: Bith are humanoid in shape; their most 
notable features are their bulbous heads and huge black eyes. 
Their skin is often somewhere between gray and pink, although 
some Bith have skin tints of yellow or green. They lack an exter­
nal nose but have a finely tuned sense of smell. Their large eyes 
give them incredibly focused vision, allowing them to see into 
the microscopic scale, but in turn, they have poor long-range 
vision.

Homeworld: Bith originate from Clak’dor VII, a small planet 
in the Outer Rim that suffered heavily from the effects of bio­
logical warfare during a brief civil conflict. The inhabitants now 
reside in domed cities and rarely venture out of them onto the 
surface of the planet.

Languages:  Bith speak and read Bith. Those who leave the 

confines of their cities learn Basic as well.

Example   Names:  Doikk,   Figrin,   Jinkins,   Lirin,   Nalan,   Tech, 

Tedn, Thai.

Adventurers:  Given   their   predilection   for   intellectual   and 
peaceful pursuits, most Bith heroes are nobles. Force-users are 
uncommon, but some Bith have served with distinction in the 
Jedi Order over the millennia.

 BITH

Attribute Dice: 12D
DEXTERITY 1D/3D
KNOWLEDGE 2D/6D
MECHANICAL 2D/5D
PERCEPTION 2D/5D
STRENGTH 1D/2D
TECHNICAL 2D/5D
Special Abilities:
Vision:  Bith have the ability to focus on microscopic objects, giving 
them a +1D to  Perception  skills  involving objects less than 30 
centimeters away. However, as a consequence of this, the Bith 
have become extremely myopic. The suffer a penalty of −1D for 
any visual-based action more than 20 meters away and cannot 
see more than 40 meters under any circumstances.

Scent: Bith have well-developed senses of smell, giving them +1D to 
Perception  skills  when pertaining to actions  and people within 
three meters.

Manual   Dexterity:  Although   the   Bith   have   low   overall  Dexterity 
scores, they do gain +1D to the performance of fine motor skills 
— picking pockets, surgery, fine tool operation, etc. — but not to 
gross motor skills such as blaster and dodge.

Move: 5/8
Size: 1.6-1.9 meters tall

BOTHAN

Native to Bothawui, these short,

fur-covered humanoids have had
hyperspace travel for thousands of
years. Bothans use information as a
measure of wealth and power, even
wielding it as a weapon when neces-
sary. The Bothan SpyNet, one of the
largest intelligence agencies during
most eras, plays an important role in
the Galactic Civil War.

Culturally, Bothans don’t believe
in direct conflict because it destroys
people, material, and even infor-
mation. They prefer behind-the-
scenes manipulation, watching and
waiting for information that they
can use to gain status and influence. This attitude makes espi­
onage a natural part of their culture. While others often find 
Bothans to be manipulative and irritating, no one wants to lose 
access  to their SpyNet. As a  result, nearly all groups  have at 
least some contact with the Bothans.

Personality: Bothans are curious, manipulative, crafty, suspi­
cious, and even a bit paranoid. They can be irritating, but they 
are also loyal and brave.

Physical Description: Bothans are covered with fur that rip­
ples in response to their emotional state. They have tapered ears, 
and both male and female Bothans sport beards. They average 
about 1.6 meters tall and have a maturity rate and life span 
slightly greater than Humans.

Homeworld:  The industrial world of Bothawui, with various 

colony worlds throughout the Mid Rim Territories.

Languages:  Bothans   speak,   read,   and   write   Bothese   and 

Basic.

established a large colony on Alderaan (before that planet too 
was destroyed).

Example   Names:  Borsk  Fey’lya,   Karka   Kre’fey,   Koth   Melan, 

Languages:  Caamasi   speak,   read,   and   write   Caamasi   and 

Tav Breil’lya, Tereb Ab’lon.

Basic.

Adventurers:  Bothan adventurers, often SpyNet operatives, 
engage   in   daring  missions   at  great  personal   risk.   In   addition, 
many   Bothan   heroes   serve   as   soldiers,   pilots,   and   diplomats. 
Their curiosity leads some to be explorers and scouts.

 BOTHAN

Attribute Dice: 12D
DEXTERITY 1D/4D
KNOWLEDGE 2D/4D
MECHANICAL 1D/3D
PERCEPTION 3D/5D
STRENGTH 1D+2/3D+2
TECHNICAL 2D/4D+1
Move: 10/12
Size: 1.3-1.8 meters

CAAMASI

The Dark Times were truly the
Caamasi’s darkest hours. The Caamasi
homeworld fell victim to one of the
vilest plots of the new Emperor. Only
a few months after the end of the
Clone Wars, the Empire, with help
from internal agents, hammered
Caamas in a devastating orbital
bombardment. The world was
effectively destroyed, along with
the vast majority of the Caamasi
people. Most of those who survived
were off-world at the time. A few
would return to investigate rehab-
ilitating the planet, but most
relocated to refugee camps on
Kerilt, Susevfi, and Alderaan. Kerilt and Alderaan would eventu­
ally host large colonies of Caamasi.

All   Caamasi   can   create   vivid   telepathic   memories   called 
memnii  (singular memnis), which can be shared with others of 
their species and with Jedi who possess at least a rudimentary 
command of telepathy. A  memnii  is  as vivid to the one who 
receives   it  as   it   is   to   the   one   who   participated   in  the   event 
remembered. Caamasi are driven to share  memnii  as a form of 
collected history and ancestral wisdom. After the destruction of 
Caamas,  memnii  take on even greater importance as the only 
way for young Caamasi to know their lost homeworld. 

Personality:  Caamasi   possess   great   moral   strength   and   a 
deep respect for others. They are artistic, freethinking, gentle, 
and contemplative. They are also well-known pacifists.

Physical Description: A Caamasi’s body is tall, lean, and cov­
ered in down. It has long arms with thin, three-fingered hands. 
The coloration of the downy coat is typically golden with purple 
rings around the eyes and three matching stripes on the tops of 
the head that extend to the shoulders. Less common colorations 
feature radically darker hues in the same patterns.

Homeworlds: The Core World of Caamas, prior to its devasta­
tion. The few survivors, along with Caamasi who were off-world 
at the time, migrated to Kerilt in the Algara system and also 

Example   Names:  Elegos   A’Kla,   Ylenic   ltskla,   Releqy,   Tegas 

Sulkec, Meqli Likarin.

Adventurers: As pacifists, Caamasi are never soldiers or simi­
larly aggressive character types. Heroic Caamasi are typically in 
government   or   business   support   roles,   particularly   diplomats. 
Prior to the rise of the Empire, those extremely rare Caamasi 
who are strong in the Force might become Jedi diplomats and 
consulars. During the days of the Empire, Caamasi Force-users 
concealed their abilities.

 CAAMASI

Attribute Dice: 12D
DEXTERITY 1D+2/4D
KNOWLEDGE 2D/4D+1
MECHANICAL 1D/4D
PERCEPTION 2D/4D+2
STRENGTH 1D/3D
TECHNICAL 1D/4D
Special Abilities:
Memory Sharing: Caamasi can store and share memories with others 
of their species. Force-users can also share memories with Caa­
masi, though this  requires  a successful use  of either  receptive  
telepathy (to receive a memory) or projective telepathy (to share a 
memory).

Wise and Tranquil:  Due to their  reputation for being peaceful  and 
wise, Caamasi gain a +2 pip bonus to all bargain and persuasion 
rolls.
Move: 10/12
Size: 1.6-2.0 meters tall

CATHAR

The   Cathar   are   a   proud,   passionate,   and   loyal   species   of 
bipedal feline humanoids, well known for their long-standing 
friendships and ferocity in battle. They dwell in large city-trees, 
each meticulously carved with friezes depicting the city’s heroes 
and history. The planet Cathar is a wild place, with many ecolog­
ical   niches   and huge  insect   predators.   The   Cathar  easily  hold 
their own, aided by their natural claws and passionate combat 
ability. Physically, the Cathar vary greatly in size and features. 
Some   are   muscular,   with   pronounced   manes   and   beards,   but 
others have Human-like proportions, with fine, short hair cover­
ing their bodies.

Cathar have high moral values, learned from family and soci­

ety. As such, Force-sensitive Cathar 
often become Jedi, though they 
know the Jedi way to be in 
direct opposition to their 
natural instincts. Cathar know 
all too well the story of 
Crado’s fall to the dark side 
under Exar Kun. However
they might find strength in
fact that Crado’s mate was 
able to turn away from the
dark path and regain the
Jedi way.

How Cathar are viewed in the galaxy depends on the exact 
time frame of the game. A nonaligned Rim world, Cathar is dev­
astated in the Mandalorian Wars prior to the Mandalorian inva­
sion of the Republic. Remnants of the species flee off world to 
survive.   The   extent   of   the   massacre   on   this   remote   world 
remains   unknown   to  the   Republic  until   an   expedition   led   by 
Revan brings the atrocity to the attention of the galaxy at large, 
winning him the support of many Jedi. The Cathar begin reset­
tling   their   planet   after   the   Mandalorian   Wars,   working   to 
rebuild their society. Cathar survivors find sympathy on Republic 
worlds after Revan’s discovery, but many are too proud to use 
defeat to their advantage. Prior to the battle, the Cathar are  
treated as any other species in the galaxy.

Personality: Cathar are moral and passionate creatures with 
strong ties to tradition and family. They have great passion in all 
emotions, with love and hate holding equal strength. Despite 
their reputation, Cathar are even-tempered, but do not hesitate 
to act when needed.

Physical Description: Cathar have leonine features, the dis­
tinctiveness   of   which   varies   by   individual.   Males   have   large 
manes,   short   beards,   and   tusks   jutting   from   the   lower   jaw. 
Females   have   smaller   manes   but   impressive   fangs   along   the 
upper jaw. Cathar coloration ranges from light yellow to dark 
beige, sometimes accented with dark stripes.

Homeworld:  Prior  to the Battle of Cathar,  most hail  from 
their Cathar itself. After the battle, Cathar find refuge on most  
any Republic world.

Languages:  Cathar   speak   Catharese   and   Basic,   using   low 

growls and similar sounds to emphasize their point.

Example Names: Crado, Elashi, Feeth, Ferroh, Juhani, Lardu­

cias, Marn-shara, Nodon, Nonak, Stragos, Sulvar, Tinisho.

Adventurers:  Cathar adventurers can be of any background. 
Force-sensitive   Cathar   often   become   Jedi.   Cathar   smugglers, 
pirates,  and  bounty  hunters   are  relatively   rare,   for  even   they 
cannot escape their own instinctive morals.

 CATHAR

Attribute Dice: 12D
DEXTERITY 2D/4D+2
KNOWLEDGE 1D/3D+2
MECHANICAL 1D/4D
PERCEPTION 1D/4D
STRENGTH 1D/4D
TECHNICAL 1D/3D+2
Special Abilities:
Claws: Cathar have claws that do STR+1D damage.
Move: 12/14
Size: 1.6-1.8 meters tall

CEREANS

Cereans are a sophisticated and cultured humanoid species 
native to Cerea, a world on the fringes of known space. Their 
elongated heads distinguish them from most other humanoid 
species.

Cereans established contact with the rest of the galaxy short­
ly before the Galactic Republic was transformed into the Empire, 
swiftly gaining fame as expert astrogators, cryptographers, and 
economists. Few patterns or trends escape the notice of a Cere­
an.

Cerean society is matriarchal, 

and the Cerean culture’s
traditional values emphasize
living in harmony with nature
and minimizing any impact
on the environment from
technology. The peaceful philo-
sophies of the Jedi appeal to
Cereans, and many join the Order.

Personality: Cereans tend to be 
calm, rational, and extremely logical.

Physical Description: Cereans
average about 2 meters tall, with
elongated craniums housing binar
brains. They have a maturity rate 
and life span similar to those of Humans.

Homeworld: The blissful planet Cerea.

Languages: Cereans speak, read, and write 

Cerean & Basic.

Example Names: Ki-Adi, So Leet, Sylvn, Ti-Dal, Maj-Odo.

Adventurers: Cereans who become adventurers do so in spite 
of their peaceful traditions. Still, when a cause or situation leads 
down this path, a Cerean tries to keep these traditions intact,  
avoiding   aggression   when   possible.   The   binary  brain   allows   a 
Cerean to constantly weigh both sides in any disagreement and 
give two points of view equal consideration. This ability extends 
even to issues surrounding the Force, and a Cerean Force-user 
often contemplates the light side and the dark side simultane­
ously.

 CEREAN

Attribute Dice: 12D
DEXTERITY 1D/3D+1
KNOWLEDGE 2D/4D+2
MECHANICAL 1D/3D+2
PERCEPTION 1D+2/4D+1
STRENGTH 1D+1/4D
TECHNICAL 1D+1/4D
Special Abilities:
Initiative Bonus: Due to outstanding cognitive speed, Cereans gain a 

+1D bonus to all initiative rolls.

Dual Hearts: Cereans can function with only one of these hearts, but 
the demands placed on their circulatory system by their binary 
brains are no laughing matter. A Cerean reduced to functioning 
on only one heart must sleep 2/3 of a given day to maintain his 
mental performance.

Move: 11/12
Size: 1.8-.2.2 m

CHADRA-FAN

Known  for  being  among  the  most  cheerful  and friendliest 
beings of the galaxy, the Chadra-Fan are found in many places. 
On their native world, hurricanes and tsunamis frequently wipe 
out their homes, so the Chadra-Fan have developed an intense 
fear of water and choose new homes on arid planets. This expe­
rience with frequent destruction also leads them to regard few 
things   as   being   truly   permanent.   Chadra-Fan   embrace   the 
moment and enjoy themselves as much as they can, living with 
a contagious zest for life.

Chadra-Fan are notorious for
their love of tinkering, frequently
disassembling and reassembling
unattended devices into something
different. Chadra-Fan find work
in industrial research, and con-
ventionally trained engineers
attempt to duplicate Chadra-
Fan creations.

Personality: Gregarious, ex-
uberant, and outgoing to a fault,
Chadra-Fan are not picky when it
comes to friends and frequently
suffer from depression if left
alone for extended periods of
time. They are inquisitive,
particularly about machinery,
and are hard pressed to restrain
the urge to tinker with any device
within reach.

Physical Description:  No more than a meter tall, with flat 
noses   and   round,   dark   eyes,   Chadra-Fan   are   covered   in   fur 
everywhere except for their fingers, toes, and large ears.

Homeworld:  The  Chadra-Fan   are   native   to   Chad,   a   world 
located in the region of the Outer Rim known as the Slice. Cov­
ered with extensive marshes and bayous, the planet has nine 
moons, which give the world a complex tidal cycle.

Languages:  The   Chadra-Fan   language   sounds   substantially 
different from Basic, so those Chadra-Fan who speak Basic do so 
with a very squeaky tone.

Example Names:  Fandar, Gudb, Kabe, T’achak T’andar, Tekli, 

Tutti Snibit.

Adventurers:  Chadra-Fan are often found to be spacefarers. 
They   are   drawn   smuggler   and   scouting   trades,   which   better 
enable them to indulge their boundless curiosity.

 CHADRA-FAN

Attribute Dice: 12D
DEXTERITY 2D/4D
KNOWLEDGE 1D/3D
MECHANICAL 2D+1/4D+1
PERCEPTION 2D/5D
STRENGTH 1D/2D+1
TECHNICAL 2D/4D
Special Abilities:
Sight:  The   Chadra-Fan  have  the  ability  to  see  in the  infrared  and 
ultraviolet ranges, allowing them to see in all conditions short of 
absolute darkness.

Smell: The Chadra-Fan have extremely sensitive smelling which gives 

them a +2D bonus to their search skill.

Story Factors:
Tinkerers:  Any mechanical device left within reach of a Chadra-Fan 
has   the   potential   to   be   disassembled   and   then   reconstructed. 
However, it is not likely that the reconstructed device will have  
the   same   function   as   the   original.   Most   droids   will   develop   a 
pathological fear of Chadra-Fan.

Move: 5/7
Size: 1 meter tall

CHISS

Originating on the cold world
of Csilla in the Unknown Regions,
the Chiss were largely unknown to
the greater galactic community
until five years after the Battle of
Yavin, when a Chiss known as
Grand Admiral Thrawn rallied the
Imperial remnants and went to
war against the New Republic.
Even then, the Chiss remained an
enigmatic, secretive species. Their
origins are largely unknown, even
to the Chiss themselves, though
some scientists believe they are
descended from an isolated human
colony lost to time.

The Chiss are technologically
advanced, keenly interested in art
and science, and skilled at mathematics. 
Though logical in their mindset, they are also appreciative of 
philosophy and interested in other cultures. Given their xeno­
phobic tendencies, it comes as no surprise that the Chiss use  
their   understanding   of   non-Chiss   cultures   to   gain   a   tactical 
advantage over potential adversaries.

Chiss society is highly ordered and structured. Rule of law is 
controlled and enforced by a small number of ruling “families.” 
These ruling families, also known as clans or houses, are more 
akin to different branches of government than to actual familial 
units. As a rule, a Chiss will never knowingly do anything to 
bring shame upon his or her family, for entire lines have been 
exiled for the actions of a single family member.

The culture of the Chiss is based on a strict code of conduct. 
As a rule, they do not attack an enemy unless they are attacked 
first. Thrawn ignores this imperative when he seizes control of 
the Imperial remnant, and consequently he is exiled from his 
people.   Although   most  Chiss   are   peaceful,   once   embroiled   in 
military conflict, they do not relent until their enemy is either  
totally destroyed or completely subjugated.

Personality:  Many of the galaxy’s perceptions of the Chiss 
and  how   they  behave   is   initially  based  on   the  personality  of 
Grand Admiral Thrawn. As the years pass, it becomes increasing­
ly obvious that all Chiss are individuals, and that Thrawn was an 
exceptional member of his species in a number of ways. As such, 
the impression of the Chiss held by the galaxy at large is that 
they are arrogant, aloof, and calculating individuals. While this 
may be true in some instances, Chiss personalities are as varied 
as those of any other species. In general, they tend to be well-
educated, artistic, and cautious in their dealings with strangers.

Physical   Description:  Chiss   have   deep   blue   skin   and   red 
glowing eyes. The shade of their skin and the crimson of their 
eyes   deepens   with   the  amount   of   oxygen   in   the   atmosphere 
that they breathe. They tend to have black hair, though some 
individuals,  especially  female  Chiss,  develop  gray hair  as   they 
age.

Homeworld:  The   frigid   world   of   Csilla,   in   the   Unknown 
Regions.

Languages:  Cheunh is the complex and nuance-laden lan­
guage of the Chiss. Most non-Chiss have difficulty learning the 
intricacies of Cheunh. Chiss, on the other hand, have little diffi­
culty mastering Basic, but most of them are unfamiliar with it.

Example   Names:  Chiss   traditionally   have   long,   tripartite 
names. When dealing with non-Chiss, these names are abbrevi­
ated. Examples of abbreviated Chiss names include Dreel, Prakk, 
Karyce, Lev, Sorn, Szardra, Thrawn, Voss, and Zilvad. 

Adventurers:  Their keen  mental acuity allows  the Chiss  to 
excel at nearly any occupation they choose to pursue. However, 
there   are   no   known   Chiss   Jedi,   and   it   is   currently   unknown 
whether Chiss society is home to any Force traditions.

 CHISS

Attribute Dice: 12D
DEXTERITY 2D/4D
KNOWLEDGE 2D/4D
MECHANICAL 2D/4D
PERCEPTION 2D/4D
STRENGTH 2D/4D
TECHNICAL 2D/4D
Special Abilities:
Low Light Vision:  Chiss can see twice as far as a normal human in 
poor   lighting   conditions.   The   gamemaster   should   allow   Chiss 
characters to make the appropriate Perception-based skill checks 
at a lower difficulty than normal human characters.

Skill Bonuses: At the time of character creation only, Chiss characters 
gain 2D for every one die they assign to the  tactics,  command, 
and scholar: art skills.

Tactics: Chiss characters receive a permanent +1D bonus to all tac­

tics skill rolls.

Move: 10/12
Size: 1.6 to 2.1 meters tall.

DEFEL

Defel  come  from  the high-
gravity  world  of  Af’El,  which 
orbits the super-giant Ka’De­
dus. The planet is unusual in 
that the atmosphere absorbs 
all  light except that in the 
ultraviolet   spectrum.   The 
Defel,   along   with   every 
other   animal   on   the 
planet,   have   evolved   to 
see   perfectly   well   in 
ultraviolet,   but   they   are 
completely   blind   when 
exposed to other wavelengths 
of light. Defel that leave their 
homeworld   must   wear   special 
visors   that   allow   them   to   see.   This 
evolution   also   had   an   interesting   effect 
on Defel fur, making the creatures effectively 
invisible in the normal light in which most other species oper­
ate.   This   near-invisibility   has   earned   the   Defel   the   nickname 
“wraiths” because in visible light, they appear as nothing more 
than vague shadows.

Due to the crushing gravity and harsh seasons of their home­
world, Defel bind together into close-knit communities to sur­
vive. However, they also possess a strong streak of independence 
in personal matters. They are tough, resilient creatures with a 

deep and complex sense of honor, especially toward their fami­
lies and patrons. Their cities are built underground, and Defel are 
accomplished   miners   and   metallurgists   —   one   of   the   reasons 
that outsiders contacted them in the first place. Af’EI is one of 
the few planets blessed with large quantities of meleenium, a 
primary component in the manufacturing of durasteel.

Most   Defel   are   content   to   remain   in   the   safety   of   their 
underground cities, and the planet’s tortuous gravity and harsh 
conditions mean that it has few visitors. Defel that leave Af’EI 
are drawn toward professions that take advantage of their natu­
ral   stealth   and   invisibility,   such   as   thief,   assassin,   scout,   and 
bodyguard.   Most   of   the   galaxy’s   inhabitants   believe   that  the 
Defel are only characters from stories-invisible demons that lurk 
in the shadows.

Personality: Defel love independence and freedom. They are 
a proud people with a strong sense of self, almost to the point 
of stubbornness. Defel are loyal to friends, family, and employ­
ers, but   they  are  not  always   trustworthy in  the  conventional 
sense. They like to work in secrecy and rely on conniving and 
manipulation to get their way with other species.

Physical Description:  Defel are a short, mammalian species 
with canine like faces and sharp white teeth. Their arms and legs 
are relatively long for their frames and end in sharp talons that 
are used for digging and scratching rather than combat. Most 
importantly,   their  special   fur  renders   them  nearly   invisible   in 
normal light, making a Defel appear to be little more than a 
patch of shadow. In ultraviolet light, however, Defel appear in 
bright, vibrant colors ranging from golden to a brilliant azure. 
Defel are effectively blind in normal light and must wear special 
visors to see when away from their planet.

Homeworld:  Defel come from the planet Af’EI, which orbits 
the super-giant Ka’Dedus in the Outer Rim. The world receives 
few visitors because of its high gravity and its unusual atmos­
phere that blocks all but ultraviolet light.

Languages:  Defel speak and read Defel. Adventurous Defel 

that leave the homeworld learn Basic.

Example Names: Arleil, Klaar, Morr, Defeen, Thar’quan, Vox.

Adventurers:  The few  Defel   that  leave  the  gravity well  of 
their home planet take advantage of their stealthy and elusive 
nature, and most become some kind of scoundrel or scout. Their 
keen intellect also means that some Defel become nobles. Defel 
Jedi are almost unheard of.

 DEFEL

Attribute Dice: 12D
DEXTERITY 2D/4D
KNOWLEDGE 1D/3D
MECHANICAL 1D/3D
PERCEPTION 2D/4D
STRENGTH 3D/4D+1
TECHNICAL 1D/3D
Special Skills:
Dexterity Skills:
Blind Fighting: Time to use: one round. Defel can use this skill instead 
of their  brawling  or  melee  combat  skills when deprived of their 
sight  visors or otherwise rendered blind.  Blind fighting  teaches 
the Defel to use its senses of smell and hearing to overcome any 
blindness penalties.

Special Abilities:
Invisibility: Defel receive a +3D bonus when using the sneak skill.
Claws: The claws of the Defel can inflict STR+2D damage.

Light Blind: Defel eyes can only detect ultraviolet light, and the pres­
ence   of   any  other   light   effectively   blinds   the   Defel.   Defel  can 
wear special sight visors which block out all other light waves, 
allowing them to see, but if a Defel loses its visor, the difficulty of 
any task involving sight is increased by one level.

Story Factors:
Reputation: Defel are considered to be a myth by most of the galaxy 
— therefore, when they are encountered, they are often thought 
to be supernatural beings. Most Defel in the galaxy enjoy taking 
advantage of this perception.

Overconfidence:  Most   Defel  are  comfortable   knowing   that,  if  they 
wish to hide, no one will be able to spot them. They often ignore 
surveillance  equipment  and characters  who might  have  special 
perception abilities when they should not.

Move: 10/13
Size: 1.1-1.5 meters tall

DEVARONIAN

Devaronians are among the first

species in the galaxy to develop
interstellar travel, and the males of
the species have been common
sights in spaceports throughout the
galaxy for thousands of years. After
reaching middle age, Devaronian
males are driven by an urge to
wander. As such, they are often
found traveling the galaxy as
tramp freighter captains and
scouts. Female Devaronians, on
the other hand, are content to remain in
a single location, and as such, raise the
young and run the government of
Devaron. The males send as much
money as they can back to their families on Devaron, but they 
seldom return to the homeworld. The females are content with 
this arrangement, as they tend to view the restless males as dis­
ruptive to home life.

Personality: Devaronian males are bold, daring, bull-headed, 
rash, terse, unscrupulous, and stingy with their credits. They love 
being the masters of their own destinies. Female Devaronians 
are generally bright, wise, scrupulous, and sharp-tongued.

Physical Description: Devaronian males are hairless with red-
tinted skin, sharp incisors, and a pair of large horns growing 
from their foreheads. Their appearance is not unlike the devils of 
a thousand myths. Female Devaronians are covered in thick fur 
that ranges in color from brown to white. Females are hornless 
and have prominent canine teeth.

Homeworld:  Devaron, a world of low mountains and deep 

valleys linked by thousands of rivers.

Languages:  Devaronians   speak   and   read   Devaronese   and 

Basic. Their speech is guttural, and full of snarling consonants.

Example Names:  Dmaynel Kiph, Elassar Targon, Jubal, Kapp 
Dendo, Tyrn Jiton, Lak Jit, Oxbel, Saricia, Sires Vant, Trynic, Ulicx 
Vinaq, Vilmarh Grahrk.

Adventurers: Male Devaronian heroes tend to be scoundrels 
or scouts. Invariably, they are found in occupations that allow 
them freedom to travel whenever and wherever they wish. Due 
to the oppressive nature of the Empire, many Devaronian males

joined the Rebellion — not because of politics, but because they 
were annoyed that their freedom to travel was being curtailed.
Noteworthy female Devaronians on their homeworld tend to 
avoid   the   militaristic   and   adventurous   careers.   However,   any 
female Devaronian hero found elsewhere is already an excep­
tional individual who has decided to challenge the traditions of 
her culture.

 DEVARONIAN
Attribute Dice: 12D
DEXTERITY 2D/4D
KNOWLEDGE 2D/4D
MECHANICAL 1D/3D+2
PERCEPTION 2D/4D+2
STRENGTH 2D/4D
TECHNICAL 1D/3D
Story Factors:
Wanderlust: Devaronian males do not like to stay in one place for any 
extended period of time. Usually, the first opportunity that they 
get to move on, they take.

Move: 8/10
Size: 1.7-1.9 meters tall

DUG

Dugs are an arboreal species

from the Republic world of
Malastare. They are strong
and agile for their size, and
climb and jump exceptionally
well. Dugs unwillingly share
their homeworld with the Gran,
who established trade colonies on
Malastare in 8,000 BBY. The Dugs
fought a long, intense war against
the Gran. Eventually the Republic
intervened and sided with the
Gran, negotiating a truce that
essentially demilitarized the
Dugs.

In response to their marginalization,
the Dugs developed a culture based, in large
part, on self-pity. They are self-congratulatory to a fault, and 
every Dug claims at least one celebrated hero or martyr in his 
family tree. Beads, worn on their ear fins, represent these pur­
ported   patriots   and   their   stories   of   heroism.   To   question   the 
legitimacy of a Dug’s collection of martyr beads is a grave insult 
that can be retracted only by the death of the offending party.

Personality: The Dugs’ reputation for violence and bullying is 
well-deserved. As a species, they are adversarial, preferring to 
solve problems through intimidation and hostile acts. They con­
sider   themselves   to   be   beleaguered   warriors,   underdogs   who 
must fight against the rest of the universe for what is rightfully 
theirs. Despite their best efforts, the Dugs are continually mired 
in defeat. They tend to be xenophobic, and this fear of outsiders 
often manifests as blatant bigotry.

Physical   Description:  Dugs   are  vaguely   humanoid,  in   that 
they possess a torso, two legs, and two arms. The positions of 
their limbs are reversed, however, so that they use their upper 
limbs for walking and their lower limbs to manipulate objects. 

They   have   brown   skin,   floppy   ear   flaps,   and  large   mouths 
filled with broad, flat teeth. Male Dugs possess a flap of skin on 
their throats that can be inflated and used to produce mating 
calls during the appropriate season. 

Homeworld: Malastare.

Languages: Dug and sometimes Basic.

Physical   Description:  Duros  average about  1.8 meters  tall. 
They are hairless, with large eyes and wide, lipless mouths. Skin 
color ranges from blue-gray to deep azure.

Homeworld: The orbiting cities of the Duro system.

Languages: Duros speak and are literate in Durese and Basic.

Example   Names:  Baniss   Keeg,   Ellor,   Kadlo,   Kir   Vantai,   Lai 

Example Names: Drodwa, Flugello, Flugo, Gorlok, Langro Dis, 

Nootka, Monnda Tebbo.

Luvagwa, Pugwis, Reudulga, Sebulba, Sloor.

Adventurers:  Dugs   are   drawn   to   occupations   that   involve 
skulduggery and violence, and they make exceptional smugglers, 
gamblers, scouts, and soldiers. The typical Dug does not possess 
the mental acuity or patience required to become a Jedi.

Adventurers:  Duros adventurers include hyperspace explor­
ers, star charters, and spacers of all descriptions. They also tend 
to   gravitate   toward   the   sciences,   including   engineering   and 
astrogation. Some Duros shun exploration in favor of smuggling 
and trading, and a small number go into diplomatic professions.

 DUG

 DUROS

Attribute Dice: 12D
DEXTERITY 2D/4D+2
KNOWLEDGE 1D/3D+2
MECHANICAL 1D+2/4D+1
PERCEPTION 1D/3D+2
STRENGTH 1D+1/4D
TECHNICAL 1D/3D+2
Special Abilities:
Climbing/Jumping Bonus:  Due to their physiology, Dugs gain a +1D 

bonus to their climbing/jumping skill.

Shout: Dugs can issue forth a deep bellow which can be heard up to 

3 kilometers away.

Story Factors:
Reputation: Dugs are known as bullies and thugs by most other sen­
tient  species’,  and are almost  universally disliked by non-Dugs. 
Many crimelords, however, employ them as assassins and hench­
men.
Move: 6/8
Size: 1.2 m

Attribute Dice: 12D
DEXTERITY 1D/4D
KNOWLEDGE 1D+1/2D+2
MECHANICAL 2D/4D+2
PERCEPTION 1D/3D
STRENGTH 1D/3D
TECHNICAL 1D+2/4D
Special Abilities:
Starship Intuition: Duros are, by their nature, extremely skilled star­
ship pilots and navigators. When a Duros character is generated, 
1D (no more) may be placed in the following skills, for which the 
character receives 2D of ability: archaic starship piloting, astroga­
tion,   capital   ship   gunnery,   capital   ship   shields,   sensors,   space  
transports,   starfighter   piloting,   starship   gunnery,  and  starship  
shields. This bonus also applies to any specializations. If the char­
acter wishes to have more than 2D in the skill listed,
then the skill costs are normal from there on.

Move: 10/12
Size: 1.8-2.2 meters tall

DUROS

Tall, hairless humanoids from
the Duro system, Duros were one
of the first species to become a
major influence in the Galactic
Republic, and many respected
scholars credited the Duros with
creating the first hyperdrive. The
Duros have a natural affinity for
space travel, possessing an innate
grasp of the mathematical under-
pinnings of astrogational comp-
utations. Many tales are swapped
in cantinas about Duros astro-
gators calculating the coordinates
for supposedly impossible jumps
in their heads. Although not
as numerous as Humans, the Duros
are almost as omnipresent; all but the smallest settlements in 
known space feature Duros populations. The Duros species has 
existed on other worlds in isolation from the rest of their kind, 
evolving in slight different directions from the baseline species.

Personality:  A Duros tends to be intense and adventurous, 
always seeking to learn what’s at the end of the next hyperspace 
jump. They are a proud, self-sufficient, fun-loving people who 
also have a tendency toward gregariousness.

EWOK

Intelligent omnivores
native to one of the moons
orbiting Endor, Ewoks are
almost unknown prior to the
Battle of Endor. Ewoks live
in tree-dwelling tribes
with gender-based division
of labor; males hunt, forage,
and make weapons, while
females raise young and
handle other domestic tasks.
Ewok culture revolves around
complex animistic beliefs
involving the giant trees of the forest moon.

Although technologically primitive, Ewoks are clever, inquisi­
tive, and inventive. Skittish and wary when first introduced to 
machines, their curiosity soon overcomes fear.

Personality:  Ewoks   tend   to   be   curious,   superstitious,   and 
courageous, though they can be fearful around things that are 
strange and new.

Physical Description: Ewoks average about 1 meter tall. Their 

fur color and pattern varies widely.

Homeworld: The forest moon of Endor.

Languages: Ewoks speak Ewokese. They have no written form 

of their language. They can learn to speak Basic.

Example Names: Asha, Chirpa, Deej, Kneesaa, Latara, Logray, 

Malani, Nippet, Paploo, Shodu, Teebo, Wicket, Wiley.

Adventurers:  An   Ewok  adventurer  may be  motivated  by  a 
love   of   excitement,   a   natural   inquisitiveness,   or   a   warrior’s 
quest. Collecting powerful “magic” items from fallen opponents 
is sure way to earn the respect of the tribe.

 EWOK

Attribute Dice: 12D
DEXTERITY 1D+2/4D+2
KNOWLEDGE 1D/3D
MECHANICAL 1D+2/3D+2
PERCEPTION 2D/4D+2
STRENGTH 1D/3D
TECHNICAL 1D/2D+2
Special Skills:
Dexterity skills:
Thrown weapons: bow, rocks, sling, spear: Time to use: one round. The 
character may take the base skill and/or any of the specializa­
tions.

Mechanical skills:
Glider: Time to use: one round. The ability to pilot gliders.
Technical skills:
Primitive  construction:  Time  to use:  one hour for gliders  and rope 
bridges; several hours for small structures, catapults and similar 
constructs.  This   is   the   ability  to  build   structures   out   of   wood, 
vines and other natural materials with only primitive tools. This 
skill is good for building study houses, vine bridges and rock-hurl­
ing catapults (2D, speeder-scale damage).

Special Abilities:
Skill bonus:  At the time the character is created only, the character 
gets 2D for every 1D placed in the hide, search and sneak skills.
Skill limits: Beginning characters may not place any skill dice in any 
vehicle (other than glider) or starship operations or repair skills.
Smell: Ewoks have a highly developed sense of smell, getting a +1D 
to their search skill when tracking by scent. This ability may not 
be improved.

Story Factors:
Protectiveness:  Most human adults will feel unusually protective of 
Ewoks, wanting to defend them like young children. Because of 
this, humans can also be very condescending to Ewoks. Ewoks, 
however, are mature and inquisitive — and unusually tolerant of 
the human attitude.

Move: 7/9
Size: 1 meter tall

FALLEEN

Of  all  the species  to populate the  galaxy,  none  are better 
known   for   their   intoxicating   appearance   than   the   Fallen.   An 
exotic   reptilian   people,   they   are   favored   for   their   chiseled 
physiques and entrancing features. These qualities alone would 
solidify their place among the more handsome species, but their 
pheromones make then irresistible to other species.

Their gifts and allure enable the Fallen to move through oth­
er cultures with ease, but despite their advantages, Falleen pre­
fer  to remain mysterious, withdrawing  to their own  world in 
their own system. They do not lack the technology or where­
withal to venture out into the stars, but their cultural predilec­
tions   make   such   ventures   undesirable.   The   Falleen   regard 
themselves and their civilization to be among the greatest in the 
galaxy, and looking beyond their world, they find only chaos 

and strife — the
products of crudity and
backward beings. Associa-
tions with other spe-
cies, therefore, are risky 
to the Falleen and are 
approached with caution.
Falleen culture rein-

forces the sense of superiority
that pervades this species. 
Their rigid caste society 
confines them to societal 
roles and provides stability 
and a sense of purpose. 
Other systems are far looser, 
with little to no regard for 
quality of birth or station. 
Rather than contaminate 
themselves   and   endanger   their   social   system,   the   Falleen   are 
content to remain apart from the rest of the galaxy.

Personality:  Falleen are notoriously sparse with words, reti­
cent to the point of being withdrawn. Fallen believe emotional 
displays   are   unsophisticated.   Therefore,   they   work   to   control 
their moods and expressions, deeply burying the wellspring of 
feelings that boil within.

Physical Description: The Falleen are a reptilian species that 
have a similar shape and size to Humans. Delicate blue-green 
scales, supple and flexible, cover their bodies, growing thicker 
and harder where they cover their spines. Falleen can and do 
grow hair, and for many, their hair is a point of pride. They wear 
their black tresses long, pulled up into topknots or back in elab­
orate   braids.   Some   adorn   their   hair   with   combs,   beads,   and 
ornate nets made of priceless wire and gemstones.

Homeworld: The Falleen hail from a world of the same name 

in the Mid Rim.

Languages: Base and Falleen.

Example Names: Savan, Xad, Xist, Xizor, Xora, Zule, Zurros.

Adventurers:  Falleen   adventurers   are   privileged   youth,   the 
scions of the wealthy and powerful. It is customary on Falleen  
for young adults to embark on pilgrimages into the galaxy to 
explore  and learn  about  other cultures. During  this  time,  the 
Falleen pilgrims are expected to engage other cultures, finding 
their failings and successes. When the Falleen comes of age and 
claims  her  place  at  the  head  of  her  people, she  can   use  her 
experiences to better rule her subjects.

 FALLEEN

Attribute Dice: 13D
DEXTERITY 2D/4D
KNOWLEDGE 2D/4D+2
MECHANICAL 2D/4D
PERCEPTION 2D+1/4D+2
STRENGTH 2D+1/4D+2
TECHNICAL 2D/4D
Special Abilities:
Attraction  Pheromones:  Exuding   special  pheromones   and  changing 
skin color to affect others gives Falleen a +1D to their persuasion 
skill, with an additional +1D for each hour of continuous prepara­
tion and meditation to enhance efforts — the bonus may total no 
more than +3D for any one skill attempt, and the attempt must 
be made within one hour of completing meditation.

Amphibious:  Falleen can “breathe” water for up to 12 hours. They 

receive a +1D to any swimming skill rolls.

Story Factors:
Rare: Falleen are rarely seen throughout the galaxy since the Imperial 
blockade in their system severely limited travel to and from their 
homeworld.

Move: 9/12
Size: 1.7-2.4 meters

GAMORREAN

Gamorreans are green-skinned,

porcine creatures from native to
Gamorr. Their tendency toward
violence makes them valued
as criminal enforcers; though
viewed as mindless brutes,
they don’t care so long as they
are paid to fight.

Gamorrean civilization revolves

around the never-ending wars
between their clans. Preferring
large melee weapons in combat,
many see ranged weapons as
cowardly. Males live to fight;
females farm, hunt, and manu-
facture weapons. Inter-clan hatred
rarely fades, and anyone hiring Gamorreans should be aware of 
their clans to avoid infighting.

Personality: Gamorreans are brutish, violent, and proud. They 
respect   physical   prowess   and   have   no   problem   facing   death 
against a foe they feel they are on at least equal footing with.

Physical Description:  Gamorreans average about 1.5 meters 
tall, with thick green skin covering powerful muscles. Close-set 
eyes, a thick snout, tusks, and small horns give them a distinct 
look.

Homeworld: The pre-industrial world of Gamorr.

Languages:  Gamorreans   speak   Gamorrean.   They   have   no 
written version of the language. They can learn to understand 
but not speak other languages.

Example Names: Gartogg, Jubnuk, Ortugg, Ugmush, Venorra, 

Warlug .

Adventurers:  Some   Gamorreans   leave   their   homeworld   as 
slaves   but   later   escape   or   buyout   their   contracts.   Others   sell 
their contracts, finding employment as bodyguards or enforcers. 
A Gamorrean is constantly at war; it’s only a matter of figuring 
out who the enemy is.

 GAMORREAN
Attribute Dice: 11D
DEXTERITY 2D/4D
KNOWLEDGE 1D/2D
MECHANICAL 1D/1D+2
PERCEPTION 1D/3D
STRENGTH 3D/5D
TECHNICAL 1D/1D+2
Special Abilities:
Voice   Box:  Due   to   their   unusual   voice   apparatus,   Gamorreans   are 
unable to pronounce Basic, although they can understand it per­
fectly well.

Stamina: Gamorreans have great stamina — whenever asked to make 
a stamina check, if they fail the first check, they may immediately 
make a second check to succeed.

Skill Bonus: At the time the character is created only, the character 
gets 2D for every 1D placed in the melee weapons, brawling and 
thrown weapons skills.

Story Factors:
Droid   Hate:  Most   Gamorreans   hate   droids   and   other   mechanical 
beings. During each scene in which a Gamorrean player character 
needlessly demolishes a droid (provided the gamemaster and oth­
er   players   consider   the   scene   amusing),   the   character   should 
receive an extra Character Point.

Reputation: Gamorreans are widely regarded as primitive, brutal and 
mindless. Gamorreans who attempt to show intelligent thought 
and  manners  will often  be disregarded and  ridiculed by fellow 
Gamorreans.

Slavery: Most Gamorreans who left Gamorr did so by being sold into 

slavery by their clans.

Move: 7/10
Size: 1.3-1.8 meters tall

GAND

A strange species of
insect creatures, the Gand
have evolved in response to
the toxic atmosphere of their
homeworld. In fact, two 
distinct types of Gand exist.
The more common has
features typical of other 
species — lungs and the
usual assortment of internal 
organs. The other type
— rarely found outside
Gand — has no lungs, 
and takes in the 
nutrients it needs though 
the materials it consumes.
Since the Gand cannot

tolerate other atmospheres, and
outsiders cannot breathe Gand’s atmosphere. the species of this 
far-flung world developed without outside interference, result­
ing in a rich culture with peculiarities. The most notable aspect  
of the Gand is their lack of individual identity. A Gand must 
earn his name, his place, and his uniqueness through personal 
accomplishments. As such, the lowliest Gand see themselves as 
nothing more than aspects of the same whole.

The Gand rarely, permit non-Gand onto their world. Insular 
to the point of xenophobia. Gand have learned what can hap­
pen  to the delicate balance of their society when they allow 
offworlders to pollute their people with ideas of independence 
and self-worth. The closest most ever come to the planet’s sur­
face   are   orbiting   space   stations,   the   principle   hubs   of   Gand 
trade and commerce.

Personality: Gand seem humble, soft-spoken and self-depre­
cating. Until a Gand has achieved something of import, it refers 
to itself as simply “Gand.” As the Gand achieves more accom­
plishments, it earns its identity, moving from the third person to 
the first person and eventually gaining a name. If a Gand mis­
steps or fails, it will likely demote itself until it repairs the dam ­
age to its character.

Physical Description: Short. stocky, and fleshy in appearance. 
Gand have three lingers on each hand, and their faces are lumpy 
and unsettling. Gand have large, multifaceted eyes that betray 
little   emotion.   All   Gand   encountered   off-world   use   a   special 
breathing apparatus that fits snugly into their facial orifice. 

Homeworld: Gand come come from the poisonous world of 

Gand.

Languages: Geed lack the organs to speak any language oth­
er than Gand and, therefore, rely on transliterators to communi­
cate in other tongues.

Example   Names:  Muulish,   Gore,   Shoolush,   Vaabesh, 

Zaabahn, Zuckuss.

Adventurers:  Gand leave their homeworld for a variety of 
reasons,   usually  as   exiles,   driven   forth   from   their   worlds  and 
condemned to wander. Others occupy a singularly unique role as 
mystic hunters called Findsmen. Walking the path of truth, as 
they see it, they explore the galaxy, taking work as guardians, 
soldiers, and more commonly, as bounty hunters. 

stamina  rolls   with   the   same   frequency   as   most   characters   for 
purposes of determining the effects of sleep-deprivation. Unless 
otherwise stated, this is an assumed trait in a Gand.

Ultraviolet Vision: Gand can see in the ultraviolet color spectrum.
Story Factors:
Martial Arts: Some Gand are trained in a specialized form of combat 
developed by a band of findsman centuries ago. The tenets of the 
art are complex and misunderstood, but the few that have been 
described. Two techniques are described below. There are believed 
to be many more.

“Piercing Touch” Description: The findsman can use his chitinous fist 
to puncture highly durable substances and materials. Difficulty: 
Very Difficult Effect: If the character rolls successfully (and is not  
parried or dodged), the strike does STR+2D damage and can pen­
etrate bone, chitin, and assorted armors.

“Striking Mist” Description: The findsman can sneak close enough to 
an opponent to prevent the victim from dodging or parrying the 
blow. Difficulty: Difficult Effect: If the character rolls successfully, 
and rolls a successful sneak versus his opponent’s Perception, the 
findsman’s  strike  cannot  be  dodged  or parried. The  Gand must 
declare whether they are striking to injure or immobilize the vic­
tim prior to making the attempt.

 GAND

Attribute Dice: 12D
DEXTERITY 1D+1/4D
KNOWLEDGE 1D/4D
MECHANICAL 1D+1/4D
PECEPTION 1D/4D+2
STRENGTH 2D/5D
TECHNICAL 1D/4D+2
Special Abilities:
Ammonia Breathers:  Most Gand do not respire. However, there is a 
small number of Gand that are of older evolutionary stock and do 
respire   in   the   traditional   sense.   These   Gand   are   ammonia 
breathers and find other gases toxic to their respiratory system — 
including oxygen.

Exoskeleton: The ceremonial chemical baths of some findsmen initia­
tions promote the growth of pronounced knobby bits on a Gand’s 
exoskeleton. The bits on a Gand’s arms or legs can be used as 
rough,   serrated   weapons   in   close-quarter   combat   and   will   do 
STR+1 damage when brawling.

Eye Shielding:  Most Gand have a double layer of eye shielding. The 
first layer is composed of a transparent keratin-like substance: 
the Gand suffers no adverse effects from sandstorms or condi­
tions with other airborne debris. The Gand’s second layer of eye 
protection is an exceptionally durable chitin that can endure sub­
stantial punishment. For calculating damage, this outer layer has 
the same Strength as the character.

Findsman Ceremonies: Gand use elaborate and arcane rituals to find 
prey. Whenever a Gand uses a ritual (which takes at least three 
hours) he gains a +2D to track a target.

Mist   Vision:  Having   evolved   on   a   mist-enshrouded   world,   Gand 
receive a +2D advantage to Perception and relevant skills in envi­
ronments obscured by smoke, fog, or other gases.

Natural Armor:  Gand have limited clavicle armor about their shoul­
ders   and   neck,   which   provides   +2   physical   protection   to   that 
region (they are immune to nerve or pressure point strikes to the 
neck or shoulders.)

Regeneration:  Many Gand — particularly those who have remained 
on their homeworld or are of one of the very traditional sects — 
can   regenerate   lost   limbs.   Once   a   day,   a   Gand   must   make   a 
Strength or stamina roll: a Very Difficult roll results in 20 percent 
regeneration; a Difficult roll will result in 10 percent regenera­
tion, a Moderate roll will not assist a Gand’s accelerated healing 
process, and the character must wait until the next day to roll.
Reserve Sleep: Most Gand need only a fraction of the sleep most liv­
ing beings require. They can “store” sleep for times when being 
unconscious is not desirable. As such, the Gand need not make

Move: 10/12
Size: 1.6-1.9 meters

GEONOSIAN

Geonosians are an insectoid 
species divided into castes, native 
to the harsh rocky world 
of Geonosis. Geonosians 
construct immense, 
organic-looking spires 
within which reside 
their hive colonies. 

There are two main castes 

of Geonosians: the wingless
drones that mostly work as
laborers, and the winged
aristocrat, which includes
royal warriors serving as 
scouts and providing security 
to the hive. Though labeled “warriors,” Geonosians do not have a 
standing military. They instead use their droid foundries to build 
armies for corporate interests wealthy enough to afford them — 
entities   such   as   the   Trade   Federation   and   the   Techno   Union. 
Despite   relatively   simple   minds,   the   Geonosians   are   adept   at 
mechanical  construction, and  are contractors  to many  of  the 
galaxy’s biggest manufacturing concerns. They are responsible 
for the construction of some of the largest feats of engineering 
ever witnessed. 

Geonosian society exists for the benefit of the few in the 
upper caste. Ruling members think nothing of forcing thousands 
of workers to labor for their whims. They have overseen the cre­
ation of the spectacular architectural realm in which they all 
live,   adapting   forms   they   once   built   by   instinct   into   more 
refined, spire-like structures. 

Their caste system has evolved over millennia. Geonosians are 
born into specific castes divided along the lines of their physical 
attributes. Though most Geonosians are content to live within 
their   assigned   castes,   a   few   develop   ambition   and   aspire   to 
ascend socially. The aristocrats are brutal in their management 
of   the   workers,   forcing   them   to   toil   under   harsh   conditions 
regardless of any dangers. 

Personality:  The hardships of the native environment cou­
pled with rigid structure codified in their caste society has fos­
tered a barbaric side to the Geonosians. Their simple minds view 
brutal violence as entertainment, and Geonosians congregate in 
massive execution arenas to watch victims doomed to die by 
being subjected to savage creatures. 

Physical   Description:  Geonosians   are   strong   despite   their 
thin   builds. Their tough  exoskeletons  provide protection  from 
physical impacts, and from bouts of radiation that occasionally 
shower their world. 

Homeworld: The world of Geonosis.

Languages:  Geonosians speak Geonosian, a strange clicking 
language. Aristocrat Geonosians often understand Basic Fluent­
ly, some even speak it.

Example   Names:  Gizor   Dellso,   Sun   Fac,   Karina   the   Great, 
Poggle the Lesser, Ikvizl, Bogg, Tookra, Gorgt, Hadiss the Vaulted.

Adventurers:  Even those with the capacity to depart rarely 
leave Geonosis. The importance of the hive is strongly ingrained 
in the Geonosian mind, and they are, as a whole, contemptuous 
of other species. The few that have ventured off world usually 
do so as work groups that ultimately benefit their home hives. 
Geonosian contractors can be found at Baktoid Combat Autom­
ata plants across the Rim. 

 GEONOSIAN WORKER

Attribute Dice: 11D
DEXTERITY 1D+1/4D
KNOWLEDGE 1D/3D+2
MECHANICAL 1D/3D+2
PERCEPTION 1D/3D+2
STRENGTH 2D/4D+1
TECHNICAL 1D/4D
Move: 10/12
Size: 1.6 meters tall

 GEONOSIAN ARISTOCRAT

Attribute Dice: 12D
DEXTERITY 2D/4D+2
KNOWLEDGE 1D/4D
MECHANICAL 1D/3D+2
PERCEPTION 1D+2/4D+1
STRENGTH 1D/3D+1
TECHNICAL 1D+1/4D

Special Abilities:
Flight: Geonosian aristocrats have wings, and are able to fly.
Natural Armor: Due to their thick chitinous shells, Geonosian aristo­
crats gain a +2 pip bonus to  Strength  rolls made to resist any 
form of damage.

Radiation Resistance:  Geonosians gain a +2 pip bonus to  Strength 

rolls made to resist the effects of harmful radiation.

Story Factors:
Caste-Driven Society:  Geonosians are  born  into a  caste-dominated 
society. Any Geonosian worker who wishes to leave the toils of 
his caste may do so by participating in gladiatorial combat, but at 
the very real risk of death. Geonosian aristocrats hold the power 
within their society, while the workers are considered more or less 
expendable.

Move: 10/12 (walk), 16 (flight)
Size: 1.7 meters tall

GIVIN

Even with the diversity of
species in the galaxy, the Givin 
often manage to shock or at 
least cause unease in most
humanoids, since they greatly 
resemble walking skeletons. 
However, Givin are universally 
sought after as starship builders 
and engineers, both for their 
mathematically inclined minds 
and for their unique physiology 
that allows them to survive in 
complete vacuum.

Mathematics permeates 
every aspect of Givin society, 
so much so that even their 
language   is   infused   with   such   concepts.   Givin   children   start 
training early, preparing their minds to handle incredibly com­
plex equations. Rigorous competitions determine the best and 
the brightest students, who are sent to monasteries where they 
spend their lives in deep contemplation, attempting to unravel 
the mysteries of life through formula and mathematics.

The shipyards that circle Yag’Duhl, the Givin homeworld, pro­
duce   sturdy   and   elegant   starships   and   compete   on   a   level 
matched only by the Duros and Verpine, the only species that 
receive grudging respect from the Givin. However, Givin design­
ers   do   not   equip   their   ships   with   navicomputers,   since   most 
Givin can calculate hyperspace jumps in their heads, and they 
often overlook life-support systems. Members of other species 
that purchase Givin-built ships must add these components.

Personality: Givin are so analytic and logical that they think 
and converse in mathematical terminology. They typically keep 
to   themselves,   leading   other   species   to   consider   them   with­
drawn and somber. Givin approach most events with only vague 
interest. However, when presented with a mathematical puzzle, 
they become animated and verbose, especially with anyone that 
can keep up with their explanations.

Givin informally refer to members of other species as “soft” 
and   regard   most   of   them   with   a   mix   of   pity   and   contempt 
because of their inability to survive in a vacuum unaided.

Physical   Description:  Givin   are   gaunt   and   skeletal,   with 
exteriors covered in sealed carapaces. These exoskeletons act as 
organic vacuum suits, allowing the Givin to survive in a com ­
plete   lack   of   atmosphere   and   making   them   immune   to   the 
effects of inhalants. Their faces  are best described as forlorn, 
with frowning mouths and dark, triangular eyes.

Homeworld:  Givin are from the planet Yag’Duhl, located in 
the Inner Rim. Massive tidal forces constantly tug at the water 
and atmosphere of the planet, exposing areas to hard vacuum. 
The Givin reside inside sealed cities that are able to withstand 
the massive crush of tidal energy.

Languages:  The Givin language is thick with mathematical 
terms,   and   the   written   language   conveys   information   using 
hundreds   of   mathematical   symbols.   Individuals   without   a 
grounding in advanced mathematics find the species’ language 
almost incomprehensible.

Example Names: Elis Helrot, Lersia Narth, Na-Soth Larr, Nisil 

Alarin, Siadru Nalas.

Adventurers:  Givin that leave their homeworld are likely to 
become   nobles   or   scouts.   Givin   scoundrels   are   also   relatively 
common and have a propensity for gambling, a pursuit in which 
their mathematical skills give them an edge. Givin soldiers are 
tough and make excellent troops in hard vacuum encounters. 
Givin Force-users are rare.

 GIVIN

Attribute Dice: 12D
DEXTERITY 1D/3D
KNOWLEDGE 2D/4D
MECHANICAL 2D+2/4D+2
PERCEPTION 1D/3D
STRENGTH 1D+1/3D
TECHNICAL 3D/5D
Special Abilities:
Mathematical Aptitude:  Givin receive  a bonus  of  +2D  when using 
skills   involving   mathematics,   including  astrogation.   They   can 
automatically   solve   most   “Very   Easy   to   Moderate”   equations 
(gamemaster’s option.)

Vacuum Protection:  Every Givin has built-in vacuum suit which will 
protect it from a vacuum or harsh elements. Add +2D to a Givin’s 
Strength  or  stamina  rolls   when  resisting   such   extremes.   For   a 
Givin to survive for 24 standard hours in a complete vacuum, it 
must make an Easy roll, with the difficulty level increasing by one 
every hour thereafter.

Increased Consumption: Givin must eat at least three times the food 
a normal Human would consume or they lose the above protec­
tion. Roughly, a Givin must consume about nine kilograms of food 
over a 24 hour period to remain healthy.

Move: 8/10
Size: 1.7-2 meters tall

GOTAL

Gotals are tall beings covered in 
thick fur that come from the moon 
Antar IV, one of several that orbit the 
gas giant Antar in the Prindaar System. 
The moon has a highly unusual cycle 
of light and dark, sometimes illum-
inated brightly and other times 
shrouded in complete darkness. 
To compensate for these 
uncertain conditions, Gotals 
evolved special cones atop 
their heads that sense subtle shifts 
in the electromagnetic field, allowing 
them to operate in light or dark 
without hindrance. The cones 
are sensitive enough to sense 
not only the presence of 
living creatures nearby but 
also a creature’s mood or
intent.

Emotions   are   an   important   part   of   Gotal   culture.   Young 
Gotals live in a constant state of confusion as they are bom­
barded by the emotions of others. Learning to handle this input 
is what pushes a Gotal toward adulthood and maturity. Adult 
Gotals are calm, almost serene beings, but despite their outward 
appearance, they feel the full breadth of emotions. Because they 
are   so  sensitive   to  emotions,   Gotals   quickly  form   meaningful 

relationships with one another. Gotals prefer to be around their 
own kind and dislike droids, mainly because the electromagnetic 
fields produced by droids cause an irritating buzz perceptible to 
the Gotals’s heightened senses.

Gotals learned long ago to keep their opinions to themselves, 
and thus they make excellent negotiators and diplomats. Some 
individuals,   however,   use   their   natural   abilities   for   nefarious 
purposes and become assassins or bounty hunters, tracking their 
prey by the emotional trail it broadcasts. Most species appreci­
ate the self-discipline that Gotals exhibit, but some are hesitant 
to associate with members of the species for fear of having their 
private passions and motivations revealed.

Personality:  Because they can  read the emotions of other 
beings, Gotals have learned to be extremely polite and discreet 
with the information that they glean. They keep their own emo­
tions   to   themselves   and   speak   to   others   in   neutral   terms   to 
maintain   civility.   Indeed,   Gotals   are   incapable   of   expressing 
emotions in words, relying on their cones to communicate their 
feelings   to   other   Gotals.   As   a   result,   Gotals   speak   only   in 
abstract terms, leading most other sentients to think they are 
emotionless beings.

Physical Description: Gotals are tall creatures with flat, elon­
gated   faces.   Thick,   wiry   hair   covers   most   of   their   bodies.   A 
Gotal’s most notable feature is a pair of short cones that rises 
from his or her forehead. These cones pick up subtle variations 
in   the   electromagnetic   fields   of   other   beings,   providing   the 
Gotal with the locations and emotional states of the other crea­
tures.

Homeworld: Gotals come from the moon Antar IV, located in 

orbit around Antar in the Inner Rim.

Languages: Gotals speak Basic and Gotal. However, the form 
of Basic they speak is devoid of emotional context. The Gotal 
language   is   impossible   for   other   species   to  learn,   because  so 
much of it relies on feedback relayed through their head cones.

Example Names: Abav Ghart, Glott, Kith Kark, Lishma, Mnor 

Nha, Pari Notgoth, Tolokai, To-yel.

Adventurers:  Because Gotals can sense emotions, some take 
advantage of their abilities and become scoundrels or perhaps 
even diplomats. When Gotals become scouts, they usually do so 
to escape the constant electromagnetic buzzing they experience 
when in close company with other species. Force-users are rela­
tively common; combining their natural empathy with the Force 
to great effect.

 GOTAL

Attribute Dice: 12D
DEXTERITY 1D+2/4D+2
KNOWLEDGE 1D/3D
MECHANICAL 1D/2D
PERCEPTION 2D/5D
STRENGTH 2D+1/4D+1
TECHNICAL 1D/3D
Special Abilities:
Energy Sensitivity: Because Gotals are unusually sensitive to radiation 
emissions, they receive a +3D to their search skill when hunting 
targets in wide open areas of up to 10 kilometers around them. In 
crowded areas, such as towns and cities, the bonus drops to +1D, 
and  the  range  drops  to  less  than  one  kilometer. In areas  with 
intense radiation, they suffer a −1D penalty to  search  because 
their senses are overwhelmed by radiation static.

Mood Detection:  By reading the auras and moods of others, Gotals 
receive a positive or negative bonus when engaging in interactive 
skills with other characters. The Gotals makes a moderate Percep­
tion  check and adds the following bonus to his  Perception  skills 
when making opposed rolls for the rest of that encounter:

Rolls Misses Difficulty By/Penalty: 6+/−3D; 2-5/−2D; 1/−1D
Roll Beats Difficulty By/Bonus: 0-7/1D; 8-14/2D; 15+/3D
Fast   Initiative:  Gotals   who   are   not   suffering   from   radiation   static 
receive   a  +1D  when  rolling  initiative   against   non-Gotal  oppo­
nents. This is due to their ability to read the emotions and inten­
tions of others.

Story Factors:
Droid Hate: Gotals dislike droids because the emissions produced by 
droids overwhelm their special senses. They receive a −1D to all 
Perception-based skill rolls when within three meters of a droid.
Reputation: Because of the Gotal’s reputation as being overly sensi­
tive to moods and feelings, other species are uncomfortable deal­
ing with them. Assign modifiers as appropriate.

Move: 10/15
Size: 1.8-2.1 meters

GRAN

Gran originally came from the 

world and system of Kinyen in 
the Expansion Region. They are 
longtime members of galactic 
society, with numerous colonies. 
Although most of these colonies
are peaceful, their colony on 
Malastare quickly became 
embroiled in a bitter conflict 
with the native Dugs, forcing 
the Gran to act aggressively to 
protect themselves.

Gran place society over self, and 

they receive training that comp-
lements both their personal 
talents and society’s needs. 
The desire to maintain balance within 
society caused the Gran to establish alien-only areas of Kinyen. 
This was intended to restrict alien influence and avoid trouble 
between species, such as what happened on Malastare. During 
the Dark Times, the Empire has pushed the Gran leadership to 
grant access to all areas. When the Gran refused, Kinyen was 
subjected  to  orbital   bombardment.   The  Kinyen   Gran   relented, 
but the incident inspired many Gran to resist the new Empire.

Personality: Gran are social and unable to stand solitude, or 
isolation from other Gran, for any length of time. Most are talk­
ative,   friendly,   and   hospitable.   They   are   slow   to   anger.   Gran 
friendships are for life. Gran from Malastare and other colonies 
follow looser social codes than those from the homeworld.

Physical Description: The beige-skinned Gran have three dis­
tinctive eye stalks with pitch-black eyes, ahead of small horns 
and large, triangular ears. Males and females have similar builds. 

Homeworlds:  Kinyen, with colonies on many other worlds, 

including Hok and Malastare.

Languages: Gran speak, read, and write Basic and Gran. 

Example   Names:  Ainlee   Teem,   Aks   Moe,   Ask   Aak,   Baskol 

Yeesrim, Cera Vixe, Cruegar, Kea R-Lan, Mawhonic, Nadin Paal.

Adventurers:  Heroic   Gran   are   often   nobles,   smugglers, 
scouts, and bounty hunters. Prior to the Dark Times, Gran Jedi 
consulars were common, and it is possible that some survived 
the initial Jedi purge. After the bombardment of Kinyen, individ­
ualistic Gran find themselves open to other methods of serving 
society, looking for new ways to resist the Empire. 

 GRAN

Attribute Dice: 12D
DEXTERITY 1D/4D
KNOWLEDGE 1D/3D
MECHANICAL 1D/3D+1
PERCEPTION 2D/4D
STRENGTH 1D/4D
TECHNICAL 1D/3D
Special Abilities:
Vision:  Grans’ unique combination of eyestalks gives them a larger 
spectrum of vision than other species. They can see well into the 
infrared range (no penalties in darkness), and gain a bonus of +1D 
to notice sudden movements.

Move: 10/12
Size: 1.1-1.8 meters tall

GUNGAN

The Gungans are omnivorous 
humanoids native to the swamps 
of Naboo. Technologically 
advanced, they rely on biotech,
growing instead of building their
homes and production facilities.
While their culture is peace-
ful, it evolved from a series of 
long, bloody clan wars, and 
Gungans still admire strength 
and cunning. Most communities 
are devoted to farming or manufact-
uring goods that are then traded to other 
Gungan settlements, but they will reluctantly 
trade with the Humans of Naboo.

Personality:  Gungans  tend to  be  inquisitive,  cautious,  and 

suspicious.

Physical Description:  Gungans range from 1.6 to 2 meters 

tall, with two eyestalks, floppy ears, and long tongues.

Homeworld: Naboo.

Languages:  Gungans speak, read, and write Gunganese and 

Basic.

Example Names:  Fassa, Jar Jar, Rugor, Tarpals, Toba, Tobler 

Ceel, Yoss.

Adventurers: Many Gungans leave their underwater cities to 
explore. Since the treaty with the Humans of Naboo, some Gun­
gans — perhaps driven by an impulse to regain the warrior spirit 
of old — have taken a larger step into galactic society.

 GUNGAN

Attribute Dice: 12D
DEXTERITY 1D+1/4D
KNOWLEDGE 1D+1/4D
MECHANICAL 1D+1/4D
PERCEPTION 1D/3D+2
STRENGTH 2D/4D+2
TECHNICAL 1D/3D+2

Special Abilities:
Swimming:  Gungans  receive a permanent +1D bonus to all  swim­

ming skill checks.

Good Hearing: Gungans receive a +2 pip bonus to all Perception, and 

search checks involving their sense of hearing.

Story Factors:
No Respect: Gungans are not well respected in the galaxy. Most other 
species consider them the bad punch-line of a galactic joke, some 
species even project intense hate for this ridiculous species.

Move: 10/12
Size: 1.6-2.0 meters

HERGLIC

Herglics are hulking bipeds 

that evolved from water-
dwelling mammals on the 
planet Giju. Their ancestors’ 
fins and flukes have been 
replaced by arms and legs, 
although Herglics still breathe 
through blowholes on the 
tops of their heads.

As a whole, Herglics are 
great believers in fairness 
and honesty. They are 
renowned for always being 
upright traders and for 
honoring any deal or bargain they make. They assume that oth­
ers behave in a similar fashion, and few things anger a Herglic 
more than deceit and cheating.

Herglics are risk-takers, both by nature and by ancient cul­
tural tradition. They love meeting new beings and experiencing 
the sights and sounds of new places. They developed space trav­
el independently of other species, and it is Herglic exploration 
that helped the Old Republic spread through the stars as quickly 
as it did. Giju was among the first worlds in the Old Republic, 
and the Herglics often established trading posts in colonies just 
for the excitement of visiting exotic locales.

Herglic mercantile networks were a vital part of the galactic 
economy for thousands of years, and these networks stood loy­
ally with the Old Republic during its greatest challenges because 
the Herglics supported the fairness and justice they saw in the 
galactic   government.   However,   Herglics   become   increasingly 
marginalized as decadence, corruption, and greed took hold of 
the galactic government at virtually every level.

Many consider the Herglics to be cowards and traitors to the 
people  of  the   galaxy,   and  they  are  viewed   with   contempt  in 
many quarters even after the fall of Emperor Palpatine. But the 
Herglics are happy to be in a position to help devastated worlds 
rebuild by supplying them with high quality goods at fair prices.

Personality:  Herglics are so easy-going and gregarious that 
they drive more high-strung beings to distraction. Herglics love 
interacting and socializing with others, and they are often very 
generous when it comes to sharing wealth and good fortune. 
Anyone in need usually finds his or her Herglic friends among 
the first to offer assistance. Their helpful nature causes many 
Herglics to fall victim to petty con artists, but professional crim­
inals know that when a Herglic feels betrayed, he or she will go 
to   great   lengths   to   take   revenge.   More   than   one   small-time 
swindler has been stalked by top bounty hunters after taking 
advantage of the wrong Herglic.

Members   of   the   species   also   crave   excitement   —   in   fact, 
many   Herglics   become   addicted   to   thrill   seeking.   This   often 
manifests   as  a  tendency to  gamble to  excess; only a   strong-
willed Herglic can pass up a game of chance. Once they start to 
gamble, they do not stop unless forced to quit, and a Herglic 
can easily lose everything — including the clothes off his or her 
back — in a short time by betting in the wrong casinos. For this 
reason, all forms of gambling are outlawed or heavily regulated 
on worlds with large Herglic populations.

Physical Description:  Adult Herglics stand between 1.7 and 
2.2 meters in height, and their heavily muscled bodies are very 
wide for their height. In  fact, Herglics are so large that they 
cannot fit through doorways or corridors built with less massive 
beings in mind. Virtually all ships piloted by Herglics are either 
specially constructed or extensively modified at yards operated 
by their species.

Herglic bodies are hairless, and their skin ranges from a deep 
blue-gray to a black that is darker than the depths of space. 
Some Herglics have white bellies or white stripes that run up the 
sides of their bodes and terminate at their large, heavily lidded 
eyes. Herglic eyes are nearly universally black in color, although 
some rare individuals might have blue or red eyes.

Homeworld: Herglics originate on the Colonies Region world 

of Giju, a planet known for its deep oceans and lush islands.

Languages: All Herglics know Basic and Herglic. Widely trav­

eled Herglics often learn up to a dozen different languages.

Example Names:  Stavros K’Hor, Udo Broxin, Fahjani Tohvar, 

Elbor Cruhn.

Adventurers:  Adventuring   Herglics   tend   to   be   merchants 
who deal with speculative cargo and ply out-of-the-way ports 
on  obscure trade routes, or they are explorers  who scout lit­
tle-visited systems. Wealthy Herglics have been known to travel 
space looking for new experiences by becoming involved with 
unusual people or places. Some even work as spies or informa­
tion brokers, using their massive bulk to hide in plain sight — 
surely no one that memorable could have been the source of the 
information that leaked from the ball hosted by the Moff last 
month.

 HERGLIC

Attribute Dice: 12D
DEXTERITY 1D/3D
KNOWLEDGE 1D/3D
MECHANICAL 1D/4D
PERCEPTION 1D+2/3D+2
STRENGTH 3D/5D
TECHNICAL 1D+1/4D+1
Special Abilities:
Natural Body Armor: The thick layer of blubber beneath the outer skin 
of a Herglic provides +1D resistance against physical attacks. It 
gives no bonus to energy attacks.

Story Factors:
Gambling Frenzy:  Herglics, when exposed to games of chance, find 
themselves irresistibly drawn to them. A Herglic who passes by a 
gambling game must make a Moderate willpower check to resist 
the powerful urge to play. They may be granted a bonus to their 
roll if it is critical or life-threatening for them to play.

Move: 6/8
Size: 1.7-2.2 meters

HUTT

The Hutts are a sentient species of 
large gastropods with short arms, wide 
cavernous mouths and huge eyes, 
who control a large space empire in 
Hutt Space. The species is said to 
originally hail from the planet Varl, 
but no planet by that name appears 
on any star charts. Their adopted 
homeworld is Nal Hutta. Members 
of this species are most often 
stereotyped as crime lords, and 
for good reason, as most mem-
bers of the species are involved 
in organized crime.

Personality: Their thinking is des-
cribed as not being the same as humans. 
In fact, it is claimed that they feel threatened on a subliminal 
level. This fear they experience means that they are often para­
noid, which is often a trait that is exploited in their species. Typ­
ically, Huts are intelligent, selfish, and manipulative beings.

Physical Description:  In appearance, a Hutt is an immense 
slug-like creature that has a thick body with a long muscular 
tail with small arms located on the upper body.

Homeworld: Nal Hutta.

Language: Huttese.

Example Names: Issulla, Grondo, Jabba, Yarella, Zordo.

Adventurers:  The Hutts are known to have several hideouts 
in remote, scarcely populated planets of the Outer Rim Territo­
ries. The spice trade is one resource that the Hutts were known 
to extract and distribute throughout the galaxy, and may Hutts 
are   involved   in   the   sale,   distribution,   and   trade   of   spice.   All 
members of the species, however, do not engage in business and 
criminal enterprises. Some become respected beings in the gal­
axy such as doctors, scientists, and diplomats.

 HUTT

Attribute Dice: 14D
DEXTERITY 0D+1/3D
KNOWLEDGE 2D/5D
MECHANICAL 1D/3D+2
PERCEPTION 2D/5D
STRENGTH 2D/5D
TECHNICAL 1D/4D
Special Abilities:
Force Resistance: Hutts have an innate defense against Force-based 
mind  manipulation techniques  and  roll  double  their  Perception 
dice to resist such attacks. However, because of this, Hutts are 
not believed to be able to learn Force skills.

Story Factors:
Reputation: Hutts are almost universally despised, even by those who 
find themselves benefiting from the Hutt’s activities. Were it not 
for the ring of protection with which the Hutts surround them­
selves, they would surely be exterminated within a few years.
Self-centered:  Hutts cannot look “beyond themselves” (or their off­
spring or parents) in their considerations. However, because they 
are master manipulators, they can compromise — “I’ll give him 
what he wants to get what I want.” They cannot be philanthropic 
without ulterior motives.

Move: 0/4
Size: 3 to 5 meters long

IKTOTCHI

Hailing from the Expansion 
region world of Iktotchon and
its moon, Iktotch, the 
Iktotchi are a race of pre-
cognitive humanoids. All 
Iktotchi possess this pre-
cognitive ability, which 
manifests as vivid dreams, 
visions, or waking dreams. 
Few Iktotchi have control 
of how or when their 
precognition manifests or 
of what it reveals to them. 
As a species, they know of 
the Republic’s coming 
long’ before their world 
is visited, and they are pre-
pared to welcome the guests that would usher them into a vast 
galactic society. Iktotchi are famed for their prowess as pilots, 
and attribute their success at the helm to nearly imperceptible 
precognitive inclinations.

Personality:  Iktotchi are a deeply emotional species. Despite 
their  sensitive  qualities,  their  culture  dictates  that they  must 
hide their feelings behind a veneer of quiet stoicism. Though 
they respect the nature of diversity in the galaxy, the Iktotchi 
have a hard time forming lasting friendships with members of 
other   species   because   of   the   Iktotchi’s   occasional   impatience 
with species who lack their precognitive gifts and because of 
other species’ overt suspicion of the Iktotchi’s precognition.

Physical   Description:  The   Iktotchi   are  a  humanoid   species 
with   large,   downward-curving   horns.   Females   have   smaller 
horns   than   the   males.   Their   skin   is   thick,   tan,   and   hairless, 
weather   beaten   by   Iktotchon’s   fierce   winds.   Their   eye   color 
ranges from yellow to orange.

Homeworld: Iktotchon.

Languages: Iktotchese.

Example Names:  Arctan Meeso, Daedar Xicse, Liiren Baelar, 

Niira Karl, Sacsee Tim, Seer Varree.

Adventurers:  Iktotchi   who   journey   out   into   the   galaxy 
become   nobles,   scouts,   or   soldiers.   A   small   number   excel   as 
scoundrels by using their species’ reputation for clairvoyance to 
run   scams   and   rackets,   despite   a   strong   cultural   prohibition 
against using their visions to generate a profit. Because of their 
precognitive  talents,  there   have   been   several   notable   Iktotchi 
Jedi.

 IKTOTCHI

Attribute Dice: 12D
DEXTERITY 1D/3D+1
KNOWLEDGE 1D+1/4D
MECHANICAL 1D+2/4D+1
PERCEPTION 1D+1/4D
STRENGTH 1D+2/4D+1
TECHNICAL 1D+1/4D
Special Abilities:
Piloting Bonus: At the time of character creation, Iktotchi characters 
gain a +1D bonus to  archaic starship piloting, capital ship pilot­
ing, space transports, or starfighter piloting (choose one). In addi­
tion,   they   gain   a  +1D   bonus   to   a   related   repair   skill   (archaic  

starship  repair,   capital   ship   repair,   space   transports   repair,   or 
starfighter repair, depending on which piloting skill was chosen).

Story Factors:
Precognition:  All Iktotchi have a limited form of precognition. Most 
Iktotchi are unable to control when these visions manifest, and 
generally receive them as vivid dreams or daydreams. Force-sensi­
tive Iktotchi who possess the  farseeing  force power gain a +3D 
bonus on both control and sense rolls when using that power.

Move: 10/12
Size: 1.6 to 2 meters tall.

ITHORIANS

Ithorians are tall humanoids whose 

appearance leads many to refer to 
them colloquially as “Hammer-
heads.” Peaceful and gentle, 
Ithorians are widely recog-
nized as talented artists, 
brilliant agricultural 
engineers, and skilled 
diplomats.

Ithorians are perhaps the 

greatest ecologists in the 
galaxy, devoting their 
technology to preserving 
the natural beauty of their 
homeworld’s jungles. They 
live in “herds,” dwelling 
in cities that hover above 
the surface of their planet and striving to maintain the ecologi ­
cal balance in the “Mother Jungle.”

Ithorians also travel the galaxy in massive “herd ships,” mas­
terpieces   of   environmental   engineering   that   carry   a   perfect 
replica of their native jungle. Many look forward to trading for 
the exotic wares the Ithorians bring from distant planets.

Personality:  Ithorians   tend   to   be   calm,   peaceful,   tranquil, 

and gentle.

Physical   Description:  Ithorians   are   humanoid,   ranging   in 
height from 1.8 to 2.3 meters tall, with long necks that curl for ­
ward and end in dome-shaped heads. They have two mouths, 
one on each side of their neck, producing a stereo effect when 
they talk.

Homeworld: Ithor, or a specific herd ship.

Language: Ithorians speak stereophonic Ithorese and Basic.

Example Names: Fandomar, Momaw, Oraltor, Tomla, Trangle, 

Umwaw.

Adventurers: Ithorians tend to concentrate on peaceful pro­
fessions.   They   love   to   meet   new   beings   and   see   new   places. 
Often, wanderlust leads them to explore the greater galaxy for a 
time before they eventually return home.

 ITHORIAN

Attribute Dice: 12D
DEXTERITY 1D/3D
KNOWLEDGE 2D+2/5D
MECHANICAL 1D/2D
PERCEPTION 1D+1/4D
STRENGTH 1D/3D
TECHNICAL 1D/2D+1

Special Skills:
Knowledge Skills:
Agriculture:  Time to use: at least one standard week. The character 
has a good working knowledge of crops and animal herds, and 
can suggest appropriate crops for a type of soil, or explain why 
crop yields have been affected.

Ecology: Time to use: at least one standard month. The character has 
a   good   working   knowledge   of   the   interdependent   nature   of 
ecoshperes, and can determine how proposed changes will affect 
the sphere. This skill can be used in one minute to determine the 
probable role of a life form within it biosphere: predator, prey, 
symbiote, parasite or some other quick description of its ecologi­
cal niche.
Story Factors:
Herd Ships:  Many Ithorians  come  from herd  ships, which  fly from 
planet to planet trading goods. Any character from one of these 
worlds is likely to meet someone that they have met before if 
adventuring in a civilized portion of the galaxy.

Move: 10/12
Size: 1.8-2.3 meters tall

JAWA

Jawas are short humanoids native 

to Tatooine. The Jawas have a poor 
reputation and are regarded as 
thieves at best, vermin at 
worst. Their off-putting nature 
is made worse by the sour 
smell that clings to them and 
their inexplicable and non-
sensical language. Jawas survive 
by scavenging lost technology 
in the desert wastes. “Lost” for 
Jawas is ambiguous; they are 
likely to snatch up anything 
that’s not bolted down. 
Moisture farmers  and others who 
live far from the spaceports regularly find 
that their belongings have vanished in the night with only tell-
tale Jawa tracks leading off into the wasteland. 

Jawas are intelligent and have a complex society. Gathering 
in  extended  tribes, Java  life  revolves  around trade  —  not for 
wealth,   but   for   survival.   Jawas   look   for   guidance   from   their 
shamans, usually a female Jawa with the ability to portend the 
future and cast vicious hexes. Once a year. the Jawa tribes gath­
er in the Dune Sea to exchange sons and daughters, to swap 
stories and news, and to mingle among their own kind.

Personality:  Jawas   are   peaceful.   Preferring   flight   to   con­
frontations. They are, however, extremely cunning and capable 
of great treachery if given cause. A fleeing Jawa seeks out its 
allies   and  comes   back  in   numbers   to  deal   with   threats.  Even 
then, Jawas rarely confront their enemies directly, preferring to 
sabotage   or   steal   vital   equipment   and   let   the   desert   do   the 
nasty work for them. A Jawa can become fierce — even vicious 
— when cornered or when a shaman is threatened.

Physical   Description:  Jawas   wear  brown  hooded  cloaks  to 
protect themselves frown the oppressive heat of the twin suns 
of Tatooine. They dip their clothing in a rancid soup to better 
seal in their moisture. This gives them their infamously unpleas­
ant odor. Jawas have sensitive, glowing orange eyes and are eas­
ily blinded by bright light. Beneath their coverings, Jawas are 
slight rodent creatures with tiny hands and feet.

Homeworld: Jason are found almost exclusively on Tatooine. 

Languages:  The   Jawa   tongue   is   a   complex   language   that 
involves as much gesture and smells as it does sounds. Lacking 
the organ to form words in Basic, and confronted with the fact 
that other races cannot speak Jawa, they developed a shorthand 
speech called Jawa Trade language. It essentially simplifies their 
tongue to aid trading between themselves and non-Jawas. 

Example Names: Akkit, Het, Oklect, Klepti, Tikkit, Tieel.

Adventurers: Family is the heart of Jawa society and as such, 
they are loath to leave their extended tribal groups. A lone Jawa 
likely has been driven out of its tribe, or it might be a lone sur­
vivor of an attack by Sand People or other desert denizens. 

 JAWA

Attribute Dice: 12D
DEXTERITY 1D/4D
KNOWLEDGE 1D/3D+1
MECHANICAL 2D/4D+2
PERCEPTION 1D/3D
STRENGTH 1D/2D+2
TECHNICAL 2D/4D+2
Special Abilities:
Technical Aptitude: At the time of character creation only, Jawa char­
acters receive 2D for every 1D they place in repair-oriented Tech­
nical skills.
Story Factors:
Trade Language: Jawas have developed a very flexible trade language 
which is more intelligible to other species — when Jawas want it 
to be intelligible.

Move: 8/10
Size: 0.8-1.2 meters tall

KAMINOAN

The watery planet of Kamino is home to a 
species of cloners known as Kaminoans. These 
tall aliens are the result of generations of 
selective breeding and genetic modification 
that began when their world suffered a 
drastic change in climate. These restrictive 
breeding programs have made Kaminoans 
an extremely adaptable species. Apart 
from gender, Kaminoans have little 
variation, and to the untrained eye they all 
look the same. Subtle variations have 
been introduced into their genetic codes, 
however, allowing for diversity within a 
strict set of parameters.

The economy of Kamino is based on 

cloning for profit, but not every 
Kaminoan is a cloner by trade. The 
majority of Kaminoans support their
communities with various skills and
specialized abilities. They strive to
perform their work flawlessly, and seek
perfection. Because Kaminoans are
moderately   xenophobic   and   rarely   venture   away   from   their 
homeworld, they are a rare sight in other parts of the galaxy.

Personality:  Kaminoans set themselves as superior to other 
forms of life. They harbor a private intolerance for imperfection, 
but they are, nonetheless, polite to outsiders. To a Kaminoan, 
any species that seeks self improvement is worthy of respect, 

but those who do not are obviously inferior and deserve their 
inevitable decline. This attitude is reflected in their cloning pro­
cesses. where entire crops of clones might be eliminated due to 
a single, subtle flaw.

Physical   Description:  Kaminoans   are   tall   and   gaunt,   with 
pale skin, three-fingered hands, and tong necks. Their faces are 
small and dominated by a pair of large, black eyes. Every male 
Kaminoan has a fin-like crest on the top of his head, but female 
Kaminoans have none.

Homeworld: Kamino.

Languages: Kaminoan and Basic.

Example Names: Aya Lint Lama Su, Maru Lan, Tau Shet, Taga 

Sal, Seva Ke, Taun We.

Adventurers:  Because   they   are   genetically   designed, 
Kaminoans are bred to fulfill a specific role or niche. They make 
excellent   leaders,   merchants,   and   soldiers.   Scoundrels,   though 
rare, are not unheard of. Kaminoans are not bred with  Force 
sensitivity,   though   anomalies   are   possible.   Kaminoan   Jedi   are 
essentially nonexistent. 

 KAMINOAN

Attribute Dice: 12D
DEXTERITY 1D/4D
KNOWLEDGE 1D+2/4D
MECHANICAL 1D/4D
PERCEPTION 1D/3D+1
STRENGTH 1D+2/4D+1
TECHNICAL 2D/4D+1
Special Abilities:
Hardy:  Due to their innate hardiness, Kaminoans gain a permanent 

+2 pip bonus to survival and stamina skill checks.

Story Factors:
Cloners:  Kaminoans   are   known   as   clone   technicians.   Kaminoans 
turned to cloning early in their history, to better assist in the sur­
vival of their species.

Move: 10/12
Size: 2.3-2.6 meters

KEL DOR

The Kel Dor evolved on Dorin, a world 
with an atmosphere consisting mostly of 
helium and a gas that is unique to that 
world. As such, Kel Dor cannot breathe 
on planets with common nitrogen/
oxygen atmospheres. Conversely, 
Dorin’s atmosphere is toxic to most 
nonnative life.

On other planets, Kel Dor 
dwellings provide their native 
atmosphere (stored in large tanks). 
When outside, Kel Dor must wear 
breath masks and goggles. They 
can neither see nor breathe 
without these devices. Most
Kel Dor breath masks include 
vocoders that amplify the 
wearer’s   speech;  while  their  vocal   cords   function   normally  in 
their native atmosphere, Kel Dor must shout to produce sound 
in   other   environments.   Their   eyesight,   however,   is   enhanced 
when they are away from Dorin.

Personality:  Calm and kind, the Kel Dor never turn away a 
being in need. Still, most believe in quick, simple justice (even 
engaging in vigilantism).

Physical Description: The average Mon Calamari stands up to 
1.8 meters tall. They have high-domed heads, large eyes, and 
smooth, mottled skin.

Physical   Description:  The  average  Kel  Dor  stands  between 
1.6 and 2 meters tall. Their skin ranges from peach to deep red, 
and most have black eyes.

Homeworld: The technological planet of Dorin.

Homeworld: The watery world of Mon Calamari.

Languages:  The Mon Calamari speak, read, and write Mon 

Calamarian and Basic. They tend to learn Quarrenese as well.

Example Names: Ackbar, Bant, Cilghal, Ibtisam, Jesmin, Oro, 

Languages:  The Kel Dor speak, read, and write Kel Dor and 

Perit, Rekara.

Basic.

Example Names: Dorn Tlo, Plo Koon, Torin Dol.

Adventurers:  Kel Dor commonly become diplomats, bounty 
hunters,   and   Jedi.   Given   their   altruism   and   sense   of   justice, 
many enter law enforcement.

 KEL DOR

Attribute Dice: 12D
DEXTERITY 1D+1/4D
KNOWLEDGE 1D+1/4D
MECHANICAL 1D+1/4D
PERCEPTION 1D+2/4D+1
STRENGTH 1D/3D+2
TECHNICAL 1D+1/4D
Special Abilities:
Low Light Vision: Kel Dor can see twice as far as a normal human in 
poor lighting conditions. The gamemaster should allow Kel Dor 
characters to make the appropriate Perception-based skill checks 
at a lower difficulty than normal human characters.

Story Factors:
Atmospheric Dependence: Kel Dor cannot survive without their native 
atmosphere,   and   must   wear   breath   masks   and   protective   eye 
wear. Without a breath mask and protective goggles, a Kel Dor 
will   be   blind   within   5   rounds   and   must   make   a   Moderate 
Strength  or  stamina  check   to   remain   conscious.   Each   round 
thereafter, the difficulty increases by +3. Once unconscious, the 
Kel Dor will take one level of damage per round unless returned 
to his native atmosphere.

Move: 10/12
Size: 1.6 to 2 meters tall.

MON CALAMARI

Amphibious land-dwellers, 

the Mon Calamari share 
their Outer Rim homeworld 
with the aquatic Quarren. 
They tend to be soft-
spoken but vigorously 
defend causes that 
inspire them. Mon 
Calamari suffered under 
great oppression under the 
Galactic Empire; it was one of 
the first worlds to declare 
support for the Rebel Alliance.
Mon Calamari are widely 

recognized for their keen analytic and organizational abilities, 
and they have developed a reputation as being among the fore­
most ship designers in the galaxy. They see everything they cre­
ate as a work of art, not just as a tool or weapon.

Personality:  Creative, quiet, and inquisitive, the Mon Cala­
mari are dreamers who cherish peace but aren’t afraid to fight 
for the causes they believe in.

Adventurers:  Mon   Calamari   seek   their   dreams   among   the 
stars. They are idealistic and daring, often attaching themselves 
to causes that seem hopeless or lost right from the start. They 
strive to prove that even thinkers and dreamers can be brave 
and daring when the need arises.

 MON CALAMARI
Attribute Dice: 12D
DEXTERITY 1D/3D+1
KNOWLEDGE 1D/4D
MECHANICAL 1D+1/3D+1
PERCEPTION 1D/3D
STRENGTH 1D/3D
TECHNICAL 1D+1/4D
Special Abilities:
Moist   Environments:  When   in   moist   environments,   Mon   Calamari 
receive a +1D bonus for all  Dexterity,  Perception, and  Strength 
attribute and skill checks. This is only a psychological advantage.
Dry   Environments:  When   in   very   dry   environments,   Mon   Calamari 
seem depressed and withdrawn. They suffer a −1D penalty for all 
Dexterity,  Perception,   and  Strength  attribute   and   skill   checks. 
Again, this is psychological only.

Aquatic: Mon Calamari can breathe both air and water and can with­

stand the extreme pressures found in ocean depths.

Story Factors:
Enslaved: Prior to the Battle of Endor, most Mon Calamari not direct­
ly allied with the Rebel Alliance were enslaved by the Empire and 
in labor camps. Imperial officials have placed a high priority on 
the capture of any “free” Mon Calamari due to their resistance  
against the Empire. Theirs was one of the first systems to declare 
their support for the Rebellion.
Move: 9/12 (walking); 8/10 (swimming)
Size: 1.3-1.8 meters tall

NAUTOLANS

Nautolans are one of 
the sentient species native 
to the planet Glee Anselm. 
Their language, Nautila, 
evolved underwater and is 
heavily tied to pheromones. 
Out of water, Nautila loses 
much of its meaning. As a result, 
Nautolans learn another language, 
typically either Basic or Anselmian, 
the language of the Anselmi people, 
who are native to Glee Anselm’s land 
masses.

Even though they are aquatic, 

Nautolans have little difficulty living in 
climates that would be uncomfortable 
for other amphibians. They are a hardy species, due in part to 
the extra cartilage that supports their skeletal structures. Given 
their aquatic origins, they are excellent swimmers. 

Personality:  Nautolans are loyal and steadfast companions. 
They wear their moods on their proverbial sleeves, expressing 
both joy and despair with equal zeal. Though polite and civilized 
under most circumstances, Nautolans tend to reflect the moods 
of others around them. The tendrils on their heads sense the 
pheromones released by others. This can inadvertently affect a 
Nautolan’s disposition — for better or for worse. Despite their 
peaceful nature, Nautolans are not above defending themselves.

Physical Description: Nautolans have thick green skin that is 
covered   in   dark,   mottled   spots.   Their   large,   black   eyes   allow 
them to see well in dim light. Each Nautolan’s head is crowned 
by   long,   tentacle-like   tendrils,   which   the   Nautolan   decorates 
with leather bands, metal rings, or beaded ties.

Homeworld: Glee Anselm.

Languages: Nautila.

Example Names: Hiskar Dorset, Kit Fisto, Ross Nikios, Renko 

Losa, Pin Mako, Setel Yast. 

Adventurers: Nautolans crave adventure and are as likely to 
be   just   about   any   profession.   There   have   also   been   several 
notable Nautolan Jedi. 

 NAUTOLAN

Attribute Dice: 11D
DEXTERITY 1D+1/4D
KNOWLEDGE 1D/3D+2
MECHANICAL 1D/3D+2
PERCEPTION 1D/4D
STRENGTH 2D/4D+1
TECHNICAL 1D/3D+1
Special Abilities:
Good   Swimmers:  Nautolans,   being   amphibious,   gain   a   permanent 

+1D bonus to all swimming skill rolls.

Low-light Vision: A Nautolan can see twice as far as a normal human 
in poor lighting conditions. The gamemaster should allow Nau­
tolan characters to make the appropriate  Perception-based skill 
checks at a lower difficulty than normal human characters.

Pheromone Detection:  Nautolans possess tendrils which act as their 
major sensory organs, and they barely function outside of water. 
The   tendrils   are   so   sensitive   that   they   can   sense   odors   and 
pheromones, which can allow an observant Nautolan some idea 
of a target’s emotional state. Because of this, Nautolans gain a 
+1D bonus to all skills rolls involving interpersonal relations (ie, 
bargain,  command,  con,  intimidation,  investigation,   or  persua­
sion) when in water. When outside of water, this bonus is reduced 
to a mere +1 pip.

Story Factors:
Language:  The Nautolan language is only fully pronounceable when 

the speaker is under water.
Move: 10/12 (swimming and walking)
Size: 1.8-2 meters

QUARREN

The Quarren hail from the distant Outer Rim world of Mon 
Calamari, sharing the world with the sentient humanoid species 
of the same name. The Mon Calamari live on the surface of the 
world, while the more isolationist Quarren dwell in oxygen-filled 
cities in the deep recesses of the oceans.

Off   world,   Quarren   generally   stay   clear   galactic   politics. 
Instead, they often become involved with shadowy occupations 
such   as   pirates,   smugglers,   and   spy   networks.   Many   Quarren 
blame both the Empire and the Rebels (even more than the Mon 

Calamari) for their homeworld’s
devastation during the Galactic
Civil War.

Personality: Practical 
and conservative, Quarren 
tend to hate change and 
distrust anyone who displays 
overt optimism and idealism.

Physical Description: The 

average Quarren stands 1.8 
meters tall. They have 
leathery skin and heads that 
resemble four-tentacled squids, 
hence the name “squid head” 
sometimes used by others.

Homeworld: The watery 

planet Mon Calamari.

Languages: Quarren speak,

read, and write Quarrenese and Basic. They tend to learn Mon 
Calamarian as well.

Example Names: Kelmut, Seggor, Tessek, Tsillin, Vekker.

Adventurers: Quarren leave their homeworld to escape their 
dependency on the Mon Calamari. They tend to seek out the 
fringes of society, operating as scoundrels or nobles in criminal 
organizations.

 QUARREN

Attribute Dice: 12D
DEXTERITY 1D+2/4D+2
KNOWLEDGE 1D/4D
MECHANICAL 2D/4D+2
PERCEPTION 1D/3D+2
STRENGTH 1D/4D+1
TECHNICAL 1D+2/5D
Special Abilities:
Aquatic Survival: At character creation only, characters may place 1D 
of skill dice in swimming and survival: aquatic and receive +2D in 
the skill.

Aquatic: Quarren can breathe both air and water and can withstand 

extreme pressures found in ocean depths. 

Move: 9/12
Size: 1.4-1.9 meters tall

RODIANS

Rodians hail from the Tyrius
star system in the Mid Rim, their 
homeworld humid and choked 
with heavy rain forests teeming 
with dangerous life forms. In 
this hostile environment, the 
Rodians evolved into brutal hunters 
and killers to survive. As a 
result, Rodian culture centers around 
the concept of “the hunt.” Their 
art glorifies violence and the act 
of stalking prey. The more intell-
igent and dangerous a hunter’s 
prey, the more honorable 
the hunt. Rodians have num-
erous annual festivals that exist solely to honor such activities.

Since joining the rest of the galaxy’s spacefaring species, the 
Rodians have come to view bounty hunting as the most honor­
able profession in existence, and many have found great success 
in this field.

SoroSuub is one of the largest non-Human-owned interstellar 
corporations in the galaxy. In fact, the company is so powerful 
that it has become the official government of Sullust, and more 
than half of the planet’s population is on its payroll.

Personality: Rodians tend to be violent, tenacious, and dedi­

Personality:  Sullustans tend to be pragmatic, pleasant, and 

cated.

fond of practical jokes.

Physical   Description:  Humanoid, with multifaceted eyes, a 
tapered snout, and deep green skin, the average Rodian stands 
1.6 meters tall.

Homeworld: The industrial world of Rodia.

Physical Description:  Humanoid with large round eyes, big 

ears, and jowls, the average Sullustan stands 1.5 meters tall.

Homeworld: The volcanic, technological world Sullust.

Languages: Sullustans speak, read, and write Sullustese and 

Languages: Rodians speak, read, and write Rodese and Basic, 

Basic.

but many learn to speak Huttese as well.

Example Names:  Aril Nunb, Dllr Nep, Nien Nunb, Sian Tevv, 

Example   Names:  Andoorni,   Beedo,   Chido,   Doda,   Greedo, 

Syub Snunb.

Greeata, Kelko, Navik, Neela, Neesh, Wald.

Adventurers:  Rodian adventurers leave their homeworld to 
improve their skills, hoping to one day return and claim the title 
of Hunt Master. To this end, they take on roles that allow them 
to   flex   their   hunting   skills   and  increase   their  battle   prowess, 
most commonly working as bounty hunters or mercenaries.

 RODIAN

Attribute Dice: 12D
DEXTERITY 1D+2/4D+2
KNOWLEDGE 1D/3D
MECHANICAL 1D/2D+2
PERCEPTION 1D/3D+2
STRENGTH 1D/4D+1
TECHNICAL 1D/2D+1
Story Factors:
Reputation: Rodians are notorious for their tenacity and their eager­
ness to kill intelligent beings for the sake of a few credits. Certain 
factions of galactic civilization (most notably criminal organiza­
tions,   authoritarian/dictatorial   planetary   governments   and   the 
Empire) find Rodians to be indispensable employees, despite the 
fact that they are almost universally distrusted by other species. 
Whenever an unfamiliar Rodian is encountered, most other beings 
assume that it is involved in a hunt, and give the alien a wide 
berth.
Move: 10/12
Size: 1.5-1.7 meters tall

SULLUSTANS

To survive the natural perils of 
their harsh, volcanic homeworld, 
the Sullustans evolved in the 
planet’s numerous caves. They 
prefer to dwell underground, 
constructing highly advanced 
cities of such great beauty that 
wealthy sightseers come from 
allover the galaxy to visit them. 
Living underground helped the 
Sullustans to develop acute senses, 
and they are renowned for their 
navigational and piloting skills.
This friendly, gregarious 
species enjoys interacting with 
unique, unusual, and interesting 
beings. When Old Republic scouts
first visited their homeworld, the Sullustans quickly embraced 
galactic   civilization.   The   Sullustan   manufacturing   company 

Adventurers: Sullustan adventurers enjoy exploring the gal­
axy, conducting business, and pulling pranks to see how others 
react. They are inquisitive and love to discover things through 
personal experience, sometimes being a bit reckless.

 SULLUSTAN

Attribute Dice: 12D
DEXTERITY 1D/3D
KNOWLEDGE 1D/2D+2
MECHANICAL 2D/4D+1
PERCEPTION 1D/3D+1
STRENGTH 1D/2D+2
TECHNICAL 1D/3D+2
Special Abilities:
Enhanced   Senses:  Sullustans   have   advanced   hearing   and   vision. 
Whenever they make Perception or search checks involving vision 
in low-light conditions or hearing, they receive a +2D bonus.

Location   Sense:  Once   a   Sullustan   has   visited   an   area,   he   always 
remembers how to return to the area — he cannot get lost in a 
place that he has visited before. This is automatic and requires no 
die roll. When using the  astrogation  skill to jump to a place a 
Sullustan has been, the astrogator receives a bonus of +1D to his 
(or her) die roll.

Move: 10/12
Size: 1-1.8 meters tall

TALZ

The Empire subjugated the 

Talz very early in the Dark 
Times. The New Order wasted 
no time in secretly enslaving 
the race and forcing them to 
mine the mineral wealth of 
Alzoc Ill. The Talz did not under-
stand the motives of their new 
masters, but they could do little 
but comply. Those few Talz who 
escaped hid themselves among the 
fringes of the galaxy, lest the 
Imperials send them back to their 
homeworld. During this time, almost 
no one in the galaxy at large knew 
that the Talz even existed.

Although primitive, the Talz are

quick learners and take to technology quite well. Their two sets 
of distinctive eyes allow them to see in bright light and the oth­
er in total darkness. Their thick fur is suited to the frigid tem­
peratures of Alzoc III.

Personality: Talz are gentle, kindhearted, and slow to anger. 

Homeworld: Shill in the Expansion Region, a planet featuring 

Physical Description: A Talz is completely covered in shaggy 
white fur. Each one has four black eyes, plus a proboscis for 
talking and eating, and two large hands with sharp talons. 

Homeworlds: Alzoc Ill, a frozen world in the Outer Rim sys­

tem of Alzoc.

Languages:  Talz speak their own language of buzzing and 

chirping sounds.

Example Names:  Foul Moudama, Arvor, Bama Vook, Forfur, 

Gar, Muftak, Rugg, Toffik, Veefa, Voruf.

Adventurers:  Talz are usually fringer-based scoundrels, and 
they are a quick study when introduced to technology. Few Talz 
are Force-users. 

 TALZ

Attribute Dice: 11D
DEXTERITY 2D/4D
KNOWLEDGE 1D/3D
MECHANICAL 1D/3D
PERCEPTION 2D+1/4D+1
STRENGTH 2D+2/4D+2
TECHNICAL 1D/3D
Story Factors:
Enslavement: One of the few subjects which will drive a Talz to anger 
is that of the enslavement of their people. If a Talz has a cause 
that drives its personality, that cause is most likely the emancipa­
tion of its people.

Move: 8/10
Size: 2-2.2 meters tall

TOGRUTA

Togruta are natives of the planet Shill, 
a world of dense forests, wild scrublands, 
and ever-growing urban areas. The most 
striking features of Togruta are their 
brightly colored horns, head, tails, and 
skin. These patterns serve as a sort of 
camouflage that helps them stalk prey 
through the red and white, meter-tall 
turu-grass of the scrublands.

Togruta are natural pack hunters and 
work effectively in large groups. Individ-
ualism is generally discouraged, but 
despite this fact, most Togruta 
leaders gain power and prestige 
through expressions of individuality.

Outsiders often believe that Togruta are venomous. Although 
no one knows how this rumor was started, Togruta do use their 
sharp   incisors   to   kill   one   of   their   favorite   meals,   the   small, 
rodent-like   thimiars.   Outsiders   who   witness   this   event   could 
mistake the thimiar’s death throes for the result of poisoning.

Personality:  Togruta   are   social,   outspoken,   perceptive   and 
attentive. They prefer to work in groups and are adept at com­
plex social interaction within a known group. 

Physical Description: A Togruta has an oval face flanked by 
striped, curved horns and a long head tail. Elaborate red and 
white patterns adorn the face, while a Togruta’s body and limbs  
display red and white stripes.

small communities within dense forests and hidden valleys.

Languages: Togruta speak Basic and Togruti

Example   Names:  Ashla,   Raana   Tey,   Codi   Ty,   Creev   Zrgaat, 
Dyani Zaan, Jir Taalan, Qusak Laal, Shaak Ti, Vika Saaris, Ahsoka 
Tano.

Adventurers:

 Strong-willed,   highly   independent   Togruta 
leave their homeworld to “hunt among the stars.” Togruta are 
often nobles, scouts, or soldiers, or become Force adepts, but 
can belong to any occupation. 

 TOGRUTA

Attribute Dice: 13D
DEXTERITY 2D/4D+2
KNOWLEDGE 2D/4D+1
MECHANICAL1D/4D
PERCEPTION 2D/4D+1
STRENGTH 1D/3D+2
TECHNICAL 1D/4D
Special Abilities:
Camouflage: Togruta characters possess colorful skin patterns which 
help   them   blend   in   with   natural   surroundings   (much   like   the 
stripes of  a tiger). This  provides them  with  a +2 pip bonus to 
sneak skill checks.

Spatial Awareness: Using a form of passive echolocation, Togruta can 
sense their surroundings. If unable to see, a Togruta character can 
attempt a Moderate search skill check. Success allows the Togru­
ta to perceive incoming attacks and react accordingly by making 
defensive rolls.

Story Factors:
Believed to be Venomous:  Although they are not poisonous, it is a 
common misconception by other species that Togruta are ven­
omous.

Group Oriented: Togruta work well in large groups, and individualism 
is seen as abnormal within their culture. When working as part of 
a   team   to   accomplish  a   goal,   Togruta   characters   are   twice   as 
effective   as   normal   characters   (i.e.,   they   contribute   a   +2   pip 
bonus   instead   of   a  +1  pip   bonus   when  aiding   in   a   combined 
action; see the rules for Combined Actions.

Move: 10/12
Size: 1.7-1.9 meters

TRANDOSHANS

The reptilian Trandoshans are known
for their great strength and warlike natures.
Many of these beings dedicate themselves
to martial training, and some follow
the path of the hunter on their native
world. A few have even become
renowned (or infamous) bounty
hunters in galactic society. 
Trandoshans have a long standing
enmity with Wookiees, and the two 
species have fought often over the
centuries.

Trandoshans (who refer to themselves 

as “T’doshok”) have super-sensitive 
eyes that can see into the infrared 
range. They shed their skin several 
times in the span of their lives and 
can even regenerate lost limbs, but
their  clawed   hands   have  difficulty   with   fine   manipulation  of 
objects.

Personality: Violent, brutal, and driven, Trandoshans love to 
compete but can show compassion and mercy as the situation 
warrants.

Physical   Description:  Trandoshans   average   2.1   meters   tall. 

Their scaly hides offer additional defense against attacks.

Homeworld: Trandosha.

Language: Trandoshans speak Dosh and often Basic.

Example Names: Bossk, Fusset, Krussk, Ssuurg, Tusserk.

Adventurers:  A  Trandoshan   adventurer  craves   the   thrill   of 
battle. Some leave Dosha to become bodyguards or mercenaries. 
Others set out to find new places to hunt and explore. A few use 
their warrior traditions to become soldiers, some even develop­
ing into bounty hunters as time goes by.

 TRANDOSHAN
Attribute Dice: 12D
DEXTERITY 1D+1/4D+1
KNOWLEDGE 1D/3D+1
MECHANICAL 1D+1/3D
PERCEPTION 2D/3D+2
STRENGTH 3D/4D+2
TECHNICAL 1D/2D+2
Special Abilities:
Vision: Trandoshans’ vision includes the ability to see in the infrared 
spectrum.   They   can   see   in   darkness   with   no   penalty,   provided 
there are heat sources.

Clumsy: Trandoshans have poor manual dexterity. They have consid­
erable difficulty performing actions which require precise finger 
movement   and   they   suffer   a   penalty   of   −2D   whenever   they 
attempt an action of this kind. In addition, they also have some 
difficulty   using   weaponry   that   requires   a   substantially   smaller 
finger such as blasters and blaster rifles; most weapons used by 
Trandoshans have had their finger guards removed or redesigned 
to allow for the Trandoshan’s use.

Regeneration:  Younger Trandoshans can regenerate lost limbs (fin­
gers,   arms,   legs   and   feet).   This   ability   disappears   as   the   Tran­
doshan   ages.   Once   per   day,   the   Trandoshan   must   make   a 
Moderate Strength or stamina roll. Success means that the limb 
regenerates by ten percent. Failure indicates that the regenera­
tion does not occur.

Story Factors:
Wookiee   Hate:  The   long-standing   feud   between   the   Wookiees   of 
Kashyyyk and the Trandoshans is deeply ingrained in both species. 
When   encountering   Wookiees   or   known   Wookiee   associates, 
Trandoshans   must   make   a   Moderate  willpower  check   to   keep 
from attacking.

Hostility:  The Trandoshans are known as a belligerent species. They 

gain +1D to all intimidation rolls against non-Trandoshans.

Move: 8-10
Size: 1.9-2.4 meters tall

TWI’LEKS

From the dry, rocky world of Ryloth, Twi’leks have made a 
place   for   themselves   along   the   galactic   rim.   These   tall,   thin 
humanoids include a variety of distinct sub-races, but are all 
instantly   recognizable   by   the   tentacular   “head-tails”   (called 
lekku) that protrude from the backs of their heads.

Sly, calculating beings, Twi’leks prefer to avoid trouble and 
stick to the shadows until an opportunity to act without undue 
danger to themselves presents itself. Their entrepreneurial spirit 
leads them to positions of influence, and Twi’lek corporate exec­
utives and ambassadors are no less common than unscrupulous 
Twi’lek freighter captains and crime lords.

Personality: Twi’leks are calc-
ulating, pragmatic, and charismatic 
people. Generally, they try to avoid 
being swept up in conflict, preferring
instead to duck into the shadows where 
they can observe, plan, and prepare to 
profit from the outcome.

Physical Description: Humanoids with 

long head-tails, the average Twi’lek 
stands 1.8 meters tall. Skin tones include 
white, green, blue, red, and orange, among 
others.

Homeworld: Ryloth.

Languages: Twi’leks speak, read, 

and write Ryl and Basic. They can 
also communicate with one 
another using their lekku. Some 
also learn Huttese.

Example Names:  Bib Fortuna, Deel Surool, Firith Olan, Koyi 

Komad, Lyn Me, Oola, Tott Doneeta.

Adventurers:  Twi’lek   adventurers   generally   prefer   to   work 
behind the scenes, letting others stand in the full light of day. 
Many wind up in business (whether legal or illegal), performing 
as entertainers, or even serving as diplomats.

 TWI’LEK

Attribute Dice: 12D
DEXTERITY 2D/4D+1
KNOWLEDGE 1D/4D
MECHANICAL 1D/3D
PERCEPTION 2D/4D+2
STRENGTH 1D/3D+2
TECHNICAL 1D/3D
Special Abilities:
Tentacles: Twi’leks can use their tentacles to communicate in secret 
with each other, even if in a room full of individuals. The complex  
movement of the tentacles is, in a sense, a “secret” language that 
all Twi’leks are fluent in.

Skill   Bonus:  At   the   time   the   character   is   generated   only,   the
character receives 2D for every 1D placed in the persuasion skill.

Story Factors:
Slavery: Slavery is so ingrained as the main trade of Ryloth, that most 
Twi'leks are generally thought to be either a slave or consort of 
some kind, and often treated as second class citizens, this is espe­
cially true in Hutt space.

Move: 10/12
Size: 1.6-2.0 meters tall

UMBARAN

The Umbarans hail from a hard-to-reach world deep within 
the Outer Rim’s Ghost Nebula. Although they have been part of 
galactic civilization for millennia, very few Umbarans have left 
their home system, and even fewer have risen to positions of 
power and fame in the galaxy. Umbarans are interested in alien 
cultures and civilizations, but they prefer to observe from a dis­
tance rather than take an active role in events.

While most  of  Palpatine’s  New  Order becomes  increasingly 
biased   toward   Humans,   Umbarans   move   into   more   shadowy 
roles within his government. From deep with in the intelligence 
apparatus,   they   lead   efforts   to   root   out   anyone   who   is   not 
unquestionably   loyal   to   Emperor   Palpatine,   and   they   answer 

only to the Emperor. They are so effective
that even Emperor Palpatine’s most
dedicated followers grow to fear them,
something that strengthens the
anti-alien sentiment among many of
the Emperor’s closest advisers. The
Umbarans are particularly disliked by
officers of Imperial Intelligence, who
resent the fact that they are subject to
Umbaran scrutiny — a resentment
that grows every time the Umbarans 
unmask a Rebel double agent in 
their ranks.

After the death of Emperor 
Palpatine and the collapse of his 
government, the Umbarans find 
themselves under threat from the 
Rebels they had hunted and the 
New Order supporters they had 
intimidated. Even before the fall
of the Empire, however, Umbarans 
already begin to retreat from the
galaxy. As the full scope of Emperor
Palpatine’s   evil   becomes   more   evident   and   knowledge   of   the 
atrocities   committed   in   his   name   more   widespread,   the 
Umbarans   grow   embarrassed   over   their   association   with   the 
Emperor,   and   they   resume   their   reclusive   ways.   In   fact,   they 
withdraw even more fully than before, fearing retribution from 
the many species surrounding them.

Personality:  Umbarans seem aloof, distant, and cold to all 
but their closest friends and family members, and it is a rare 
observer who has the patience to wait for an Umbaran to let his 
or her guard down. As such, the few Umbarans active beyond 
their homeworld tend to be regarded by other beings as ciphers.

Because   of   this   emotional   distance,   many   non-Umbarans 
mistakenly   assume   that   Umbarans   are   indifferent   to   those 
around   them.   Nothing   could   be   further   from   the   truth. 
Although Umbarans keep their own affairs private, they con­
stantly and quietly try to learn as much as they can about the  
affairs of others. The Umbaran knack for uncovering secrets has 
led to rumors that all members of the species are telepaths, but 
the truth is that they move about unnoticed simply because of 
their outsider status, listening and observing all the while.

Physical Description:  Umbarans are thinly built humanoids 
with sunken eyes and pallid skin tones that range from snowy 
white to pale blue. Male Umbarans stand between 1.7 and 2 
meters tall; females tend to be shorter and slighter of build.

Homeworld:  Umbarans   originate   from   the   isolated,   dark 

world of Umbara on the Outer Rim.

Languages: Basic and Umbarese.

Example Names: Sly Moore, Hant Tuff, Zan Palton.

Adventurers:  Most   Umbaran   adventurers   are   hard-bitten 
loners who come off as antisocial in their interactions with oth ­
ers. They often work as bounty hunters, explorers, or administra­
tors   of   remote   facilities   that   are   mostly   automated.   A   few 
Umbarans have been known to work for intelligence organiza­
tions and corporations as spies, usually as “deniable assets.”

 UMBARAN

Attribute Dice: 12D
DEXTERITY 2D/4D
KNOWLEDGE 2D/4D+1
MECHANICAL 2D/4D
PERCEPTION 2D/4D+1
STRENGTH 1D+1/3D+2
TECHNICAL 2D/4D
Special Abilities:
Darkvision: Umbarans can see in the dark up to 20 meters. Darkvision 
is black and white only but otherwise functions as normal light.
Low-Light Vision: Umbarans gain 1D in low lighting conditions (exact 
conditions  at  gamemaster discretion),  and  retain the  ability  to 
distinguish color and detail under these conditions.

Light   Sensitivity:  Abrupt   exposure   to   bright   light   (sunlight)   blinds 
Umbarans for 1 round. In addition, they suffer a −1 pip penalty 
while operating in bright light without protective eye wear.

Perceptive: Umbaran gain a +2 bonus to Perception against con and 

bargain rolls.

Story Factors:
Influence: In situations where a character’s reputation can be a fac­
tor, Umbarans gain a +2 pip bonus to  con,  bargain,  persuasion, 
investigation and intimidation rolls.

Move: 10/12
Size: 1.5-2 meters tall

VERPINE

The Verpine have been spacefarers 

for all their recorded history, long 
before they had contact with other 
species. Verpine have traveled for 
so long that the name and loca-
tion of their homeworld have 
been lost to antiquity. They are 
fascinated with technology in all 
its forms, and consider themselves 
to be experts in all technological 
fields. Any device that falls into 
Verpine hands is prone to being 
taken apart, reassembled, and 
improved with astonishing speed 
and skill. The asteroid field that 
the Verpine have transformed into 
a thriving colony is a testament 
to their mastery of technology.

Verpine society is guided by an absolute majority rule. Their 
natural communication ability enables the Verpine of a commu­
nity to easily poll every individual Verpine within it. Each Ver­
pine has an equal say in any governmental process, and the final 
decision is binding. This approach to government enables a sin­
gle Verpine to speak with certainty about his or her commu ­
nity’s stance on any given issue.

Personality: Deeply fascinated by technology, a Verpine will 
risk his or her life to protect valuable equipment. Verpine con­
sider technology to be the best means for resolving a dilemma 
and are willing to improve existing equipment when necessary. 
Other species find Verpine to be personable and enthusiastic.

Physical Description:  Their height and stick-like limbs give 
Verpine a gangly appearance. Their bodies are covered in green 
plates of chitin. Each Verpine has two large black eyes and dual 
antennae. Verpine have three digits on each hand and foot.

Homeworld:  The   Verpine’s   largest   settlement   is   the   Roche 
asteroid field, located in the Mid Rim. Verpine rely extensively 
on technology to make the asteroids habitable.

Weequay who are born off-world or adopted into other soci­
eties at an early age often develop more individualistic person­
alities than their deep-rooted cousins. 

Languages:  Verpine   read,   speak,   and   write   Verpine,   which 
they transmit to each other through organically generated radio 
waves.

Example   Names:  Garginoolaara,   Jurfel,   Kyli,   Ned’lx, 

Suskafoo, Zix, Zraii.

Adventurers:  Verpine   are   frequently   technicians   who   may 
work with scouts, smugglers, or even pirates. They will almost 
always focus on creating and repairing technology.

 VERPINE

Attribute Dice: 12D
DEXTERITY 1D+1/3D
KNOWLEDGE 1D+1/3D
MECHANICAL 1D+2/3D+2
PERCEPTION 1D+1/4D
STRENGTH 1D+1/3D
TECHNICAL 2D/3D
Special Abilities:
Microscopic Sight: +1D to search for small objects, due to their high­

ly evolved eyes.

Body Armor: The Verpine’s natural chitinous plate armor gives them a 

+1D bonus against physical attacks.

Organic Telecommunication:  Because Verpine can send and receive 
radio waves through their antenna, they have the ability to com­
municate   with   other   members   of   their   species   with   special­
ly-tuned   comlinks.   The   range   is   very   limited   when   they   are 
activating individually (1 km) but greatly increases when in the 
hive (covers the entire Roche asteroid field).

Technical Bonus:  All Verpine receive a +2D bonus when using their 

Technical skills.

Move: 10/13
Size: 1.7-2.2 meters tall

WEEQUAY

The Weequay are well-known 

throughout the galaxy for their violent
tendencies and lack of individuality. 
Deeply spiritual, they worship a broad 
pantheon of deities, the most senior 
of which is known as Quay. Zealous 
Weequay perform ritual sacrifices in 
Quay’s honor, at times resorting to 
murder. Such incidents have done little 
to dispel their violent reputation. 

Each Weequay carries a spherical 
totem through which Quay allegedly 
speaks. The totem is used in times 
of great need to guide the 
Weequay, providing spiritual 
answers to individual questions. In 
practice, the Weequay asks a question, shakes the device, and 
waits for the answer to appear. A Weequay treats the totem’s 
advice seriously and becomes angry and violent if such advice is 
questioned or ridiculed. 

Male   Weequay   ply   the   galaxy   as   thugs,   mercenaries,   and 
hired assassins, while female Weequay rarely, if ever, leave Srilu­
ur. A Male Weequay who leaves Sriluur grows and cultivates a 
long braid, which is then shorn off upon his return to the home­
world in celebration. 

Personality:  Weequay are bullying, brooding, and supersti­
tious by nature. Their culture does not assign names to individu­
als,   as   all   Weequay  are  considered   to be   a  part   of  the   same 
whole. They maintain a sinister silence. refusing to speak in the 
presence   of   non-Weequay,   preferring   instead   to   use   trusted 
intermediaries to do their talking for them. Those raised apart 
from traditional values find their own voices and seldom inte­
grate well back into Weequay society. 

Physical   Description:  Weequay   are   humanoids   with   thick, 
leathery skin that ranges in color from tan to dark brown. Their 
faces are lipless. with flat noses and a well-defined frill along 
each of their jowls. Males grow their black hair into long braids, 
while females are bald. 

Homeworld: The arid planet of Sriluur in the Outer Rim. 

Languages:  A Weequay relies on pheromones to communi­
cate with  other members  of  his  or  her tribe. Communication 
between   tribes   involves   the   spoken   language   of   Sriluurian, 
which consists of whispers, hisses, and throaty mumbles. Written 
Sriluurian involves a multitude of complex hiero-glyphics and 
pictograms. 

Example Names:  Weequay do not take names within their 
own society, though members of other species often give indi­
vidual Weequay nicknames. Examples of such monikers include 
Adazian Liebke, Ak-buz, Ak-rev, Diergu-Rea Duhnes’rd, Fyg, Gri­
morg,   Labansat,   Nort   Toom,   Plaan,   Que-Mars,   Redath-Gom, 
Solum’ke, Sora Bult and Tas Kee. 

Adventurers: Weequay are so attached to their tribes that it 
is rare for an individual to venture into the galaxy alone. It is far 
more common for bands of like-minded Weequay to ply their 
martial skills and propensity for violence as a group. Their quiet 
nature and ability to work as a team make them particularly 
attractive to the Hutts and various criminal syndicates as guards 
and enforcers. Thus, Weequay scouts and soldiers are quite com­
mon. 

 WEEQUAY

Attribute Dice: 12D
DEXTERITY 1D+1/4D
KNOWLEDGE 1D/3D+1
MECHANICAL 1D+1/4D
PERCEPTION 1D/4D
STRENGTH 2D/4D
TECHNICAL 1D/3D+2
Special Abilities:
Short-Range Communication: Weequays of the same clan are capa­
ble   of   communicating   with   one   another   through   complex 
pheromones. Aside from Jedi sensing abilities, no other species 
are known to be able to sense this form of communication. This 
form   is   as   complex   and   clear   to   them   as   speech   is   to   other 
species.
Story Factors:
Houk Rivalry: Though the recent Houk-Weequay conflicts have been 
officially resolved, there  still  exists a high  degree  of animosity 
between the two species.

Move: 10/12
Size: 1.6-1.9 meters tall

hand-to-hand  combat   is   automatically  considered  dishonorable 
by other members of his species, possibly to be hunted down — 
regardless of the circumstances.

Story Factors:
Reputation:  Wookiees   are   widely   regarded   as   fierce   savages   with 
short tempers. Most people will go out of their way not to enrage 
a Wookiee.

Enslaved: Prior to the defeat of the Empire, almost all Wookiees were 
enslaved by the Empire, and there was a substantial bounty for 
the capture of “free” Wookiees. 

Language:  Wookiees cannot speak Basic, but they all understand it. 
Nearly always, they have a close friend who they travel with who 
can interpret for them... though a Wookiee’s intent is seldom mis­
understood.

Honor:  Wookiees are honor-bound. They are fierce warriors with a 
great deal of pride and they can be rage-driven, cruel and unfair 
— but they have a code of honor. They do not betray their species 
or desert a friend. They may break the “law”, but never their code. 
The Wookiee Code of Honor is as stringent as it is ancient. Atone­
ment for a crime against Honor is nearly impossible — it is usually 
only achieved posthumously. But Wookiees falsely accused can be 
freed   of   their   dishonor,   and   there   are   legends   of   dishonored 
Wookiees “coming back”. But those are legends...

Move: 11/15
Size: 2-2.3 meters tall

YUUZHAN VONG

The Yuuzhan Vong come from the unknown reaches of space, 
entering the galaxy as invaders fueled by religious conviction. 
They have no connection to the Force and regard mechanical 
technology as blasphemous. Their starships, weapons, armor, and 
tools are genetically engineered lifeforms or created from the 
byproducts of such creatures. 

After laying waste to many New Republic worlds, the invad­
ing   Yuuzhan   Vong   are   eventually   overcome   by   the   Galactic 
Alliance.   Peace   is   restored,   even   though   some   Yuuzhan   Vong 
remain behind in isolated corners of the galaxy. In time, the Jedi 
approach these few remaining Yuuzhan Vong, hoping to harness 
their advanced terraforming technology to restore many of the 
worlds ravaged during the invasion.

Surprisingly, the Yuuzhan Vong agree to help the Jedi, but 
their   terraforming   attempts   are   sabotaged   by   the   Sith.   The 
blame   for  these   failures   falls   squarely  on  the   Yuuzhan  Vong, 
who  are  hated   and  feared.  The  Yuuzhan   Vong  and  their  Jedi 
accomplices   are  hunted   down,   and  the  Galactic  Alliance   falls 
beneath the onslaught of Imperial forces.

WOOKIEES

Wookiees are widely recognized as one 

of the strongest and fiercest intelligent 
species in the galaxy. Wookiees have 
many customs and traditions that 
revolve around honor and loyalty, 
including the special bond called the 
honor family and the sacred pledge 
called the life debt. A Wookiee never 
uses his or her climbing claws in combat; 
doing this is considered dishonorable and
a sign of madness.

Personality: Wookiees tend to be 

honorable, rash, loyal, and short-tempered.

Physical Description: Wookiees are large 

furry bipeds ranging in height from 2 to 
2.3 meters.

Homeworld: The forest world of 

Kashyyyk.

Language: Wookiees speak Shyriiwook, consisting of complex 
grunts and growls. They understand Basic but lack the ability to 
speak it.

Example Names: Chewbacca, Gorwooken, Groznik, Low-bac­

ca, Ralrra, Rorworr, Salporin.

Adventurers: Wookiee adventurers usually start out as wan­
derers or explorers, but some find this path by forming an honor 
family with (or owing a life debt to) other adventures.

 WOOKIEE

Attribute Dice: 12D
DEXTERITY 1D/3D+2
KNOWLEDGE 1D/2D+1
MECHANICAL 1D/3D+2
PERCEPTION 1D/2D+1
STRENGTH 2D+2/6D
TECHNICAL 1D/3D+1
Special Abilities:
Berserker Rage:  If a Wookiee becomes enraged (the character must 
believe himself of those to whom he has pledged a life debt to be 
in immediate, deadly danger) the character gets a +2D bonus to 
Strength  for   purposes   of   causing   damage   while  brawling  (the 
character’s brawling skill is not increased). The character also suf­
fers a −2D penalty to all non-Strength attribute and skill checks.

When trying to calm down from a  berserker rage  while ene­
mies are still present, the Wookiee must make a Moderate  Per­
ception  total. The Wookiee suffers a −1D penalty to  Perception 
and rolls a minimum of 1D for the check (therefore, while most 
Wookiees are enraged, the will normally have to roll a “6” with 
their Wild Die to be able to calm down). Please note that this 
applies to  enemies.  Close friends of the Wookiee can coordinate 
with the Wookiee to make this easier.

After all enemies have been eliminated (knocked unconscious, 
captured, killed or somehow otherwise restrained or stopped), the 
character must only make an Easy Perception total (with no penal­
ties) to calm down.

Wookiee player characters must be careful when using Force 
points while in a berserker rage. Since the rage is clearly based on 
anger and aggression, using Force Points will almost always lead 
to the character getting a Dark Side Point. The use of the Force 
Point must be wholly justified not to incur a Dark Side Point.

Climbing Claws: Wookiees have retractable climbing claws which are 
used for climbing only. They add +2D to their climbing skill while 
using the claws. Any Wookiee who intentionally uses his claws in 

Personality:  Although   the   Yuuzhan   Vong   become   a   more 
introspective people following their defeat at the hands of the 
Galactic Alliance, they remain capable, spiritual warriors. A great 
many feel that the galactic community will never accept them. 
Years of hostility, coupled with propaganda, have painted the 
Yuuzhan Vong in a sinister light that cannot easily be dispelled. 
Still, they maintain a code of honor that is often lost on those 
who do not understand them.

Yuuzhan Vong heroes are exceptional in many ways, not the 
least of which is their belief that they must evolve to survive — 
and that entails learning how to coexist with species tradition­
ally regarded as weak or impure and letting go of their own 
prejudices. These rare Yuuzhan Vong see the road ahead as diffi­
cult, but worth traveling.

Physical   Description:  Yuuzhan   Vong   are   humanoids   with 
sloped foreheads, pallid skin, and dark hair. Their skin bears ritu­
alistic scars and tattoos that add to their sinister appearance.

Homeworld: Unknown. The Yuuzhan Vong trace their origins 
to a place far beyond the known galaxy. At the end of the New 
Jedi Order era, the surviving Yuuzhan Vong are exiled to Zonama 
Sekot, a living planet rumored to be the seed of the original 
Yuuzhan   Vong   homeworld.   Zonama   Sekot   retreats   into   the 
Unknown Regions at  the  beginning of  the  Sith-Imperial  War, 
leaving a number of Yuuzhan Vong stranded in other remote 
corners of the galaxy.

Languages: The language of the Yuuzhan Vong is a halting, 
chilling   tongue.   Yuuzhan   Vong   rarely   learn   other   languages, 
relying   on   bioengineered   translators   known   as   tizowyrms   to 
translate for them. 

Example Names: Nom Anor, Dooje Brolo, Malik Carr, Yomin 
Carr, Chine-kal, Nas Choka, Da’Gara, Elan, Kae Kwaad, Mezhan 
Kwaad,  Kahlee   Lah,  Qurang  Lah,  Tsavong  Lah,   Ma’Shraid,   Vua 
Rapuung, Shedao Shai, Than, Tu Shoolb.

Adventurers:  Yuuzhan   Vong   society   is   divided   into   castes. 
Members of the intendant, priest, and shaper castes are often 
nobles and scoundrels, while members of the warrior caste are 
typically soldiers  and scouts. The worker caste is made up of 
members   of   nearly   any   class,   though   the   vast   majority   are 
Gamemaster characters. Due to their lack of connection to the 
Force, Yuuzhan Vong can never be Jedi. 

 YUUZHAN VONG
Attribute Dice: 12D
DEXTERITY 1D+1/4D
KNOWLEDGE 1D/3D+2
MECHANICAL 1D/3D+2
PERCEPTION 1D/3D+2
STRENGTH 2D+2/5D+1
TECHNICAL 1D/3D+2
Special Abilities:
Force Immunity: Yuuzhan Vong are immune to all Force powers that 

involve sense or alter.

Move: 10/12
Size: 1.9-2.2 meters

ZABRAK

The   Zabrak   are   an   early   spacefaring   race   distinguished   by 
patterns   of   vestigial   horns   on   their   heads.   Zabrak   hail   from 
many worlds and have been spacefarers for so long that they

define themselves and each other 
according to their colony of
origin.

The harshness of Iridonia, their 
homeworld, forged in the Zabrak 
an iron will to survive. 
Driven to escape their world, 
they sought to obtain the 
knowledge of space flight. 
When Duros scouts began 
exploring the Mid Rim 
Territories, they encountered 
Zabrak in eight sovereign 
colonies in five different 
systems. Though subjugated 
under the harsh rule of the 
Empire, the Zabrak colonies 
eventually regained their 
independence.

Zabrak possess a great 

amount of confidence, and they
believe that there is nothing they
can’t accomplish. While this innate attitude could lead to feel­
ings of superiority, most Zabrak don’t look down on others. They 
believe in themselves and are proud and strong, but they rarely 
project any negativity toward those of other species.

Personality:  Zabrak   tend   to   be   dedicated,   intense,   and 
focused, sometimes appearing obsessive and single-minded to 
other species.

Physical   Description:  Humanoid,  distinguished   by   patterns 
of vestigial horns atop their heads. The average Zabrak stands 
1.8 meters tall.

Homeworld: Iridonia or one of eight colonies in the Mid Rim 

region of space.

Language: Zabrak speak, read, and write Zabrak and Basic.

Example Names: Aagh Odok, Eeth Koth, Kooth Aan.

Adventurers:  Zabrak adventurers love to explore the galaxy. 
No   challenge   is   too   big   to   deter   a   Zabrak.   They   range   from 
scoundrels   on   distant   colony   worlds,   to   noble   diplomats   and 
merchants, to scouts, soldiers, and even Jedi.

 ZABRAK

Attribute Dice: 12D
DEXTERITY 1D+1/4D
KNOWLEDGE 1D+1/4D
MECHANICAL 1D+1/4D
PERCEPTION 1D+1/4D
STRENGTH 1D+1/4D
TECHNICAL 1D+1/4D
Special Abilities:
Hardiness: Zabrak characters who are from the harsh would of Irido­

nia gain a +1D bonus to willpower and stamina skill checks.

Move: 10/12
Size: 1.6 to 2.1 meters tall

SPECIES GENERATION

There   are   over   a   million   known  worlds   in   the  galaxy,   and 
thousands of known intelligent alien  species. The players  and 
the gamemaster can always make up new aliens to populate the 
Star Wars universe.

When   inventing   new   alien   species,   an   important   factor   is 
game balance —  don’t design aliens that are so powerful that 
they overpower all of the other species. Humans are carefully 
balanced to have attributes between 2D and 4D; aliens should 
seldom  be  spectacularly  superior  to humans,  and  if   they  are, 
there should be a counterbalancing limitation.

Concept

When making up new alien species, the creator has to deter­
mine the who, what, when, where, why and how of the alien 
species. These basic issues govern biology, culture, psychology 
and  many other  factors,  which  help  develop the new  species 
into an interesting element of your Star Wars game.

This section presents an alien generation system and reviews 
some of the basic factors involved in designing believable new 
alien species.

There are many aliens presented in this volume — many of 
them are fairly esoteric. Chances are, if you crave a new alien 
species for your campaign, you’ll find one within these pages 
neither you nor your players have ever heard of.

However, many gamemasters like to put their own imprint on 
the  Star   Wars  galaxy   by   creating   new   worlds,   creatures   and 
aliens. If you prefer to create your own alien species, probably 
the simplest solution is to base your new alien on an existing 
chassis: take an established alien and change its attributes and 
special abilities around a bit to create a new being.

If you’d like to produce detailed original aliens, try out the 
alien   generation  system  in   this   section. This   system  does   one 
thing: generate game stats and appearances for carbon-breath­
ing species — the predominate form of sentient life in the Star 
Wars universe. You can use these rules to generate more exotic 
aliens — like silicon lifeforms or energy beings which thrive in 
ammonia seas — with a little additional work, but the system is 
not intended to produce such results.

We recommend using the system as a guideline in developing 
your   own   species   rather   than   as   a   random   alien   generator 
(though the system is set up to produce random results if you 
prefer to work that way). The process of creating a new alien 
species should be done with great care, especially if the species 
will be made available to players as character templates: take 
the time to think most of the aspects of the species through to 
assure that the creature is balanced, reasonable and interesting. 
That all said, let’s get rolling. 

Don Your Thinking Cap 

The first step in alien creation is sitting down and thinking 
about your alien. You don’t need to settle on details right now — 
that’s what the creation system is for. But you should frame in 
your   mind   the   objectives   you   want   to   accomplish   by   asking 
yourself a few questions.

How prominent will the new aliens be in your campaign? The 
amount of time you spend in detailing your alien depends large­
ly   on   how   much   you   plan   to   feature   it   in   your   adventures. 
Again, if all you need is a walk-on, you probably don’t need to 
generate a complete alien civilization. Simple game stats and a

general description should be enough. On the other hand, if the 
characters are traveling to the aliens’ homeworld to bring it into 
the   Alliance,   you   need   to   know   a   lot   more   about   your   new 
species and its culture.

Do you already have any ideas about your aliens how they 
look, what their society is like, what environment they live in? 
Will your alien be a squat amphibian or a tall burly primate? 
Does it hail from a low-gravity world of grassy plains or from 
the undersea reefs of a waterworld? Is it a herbivore or scav­
enger? Does it honk really loud when it’s scared? Does it read 
datapads or try to eat them?

If you are designing a new alien to play a specific role in an 
adventure, your adventure requirements might dictate or influ­
ence your design. For example, if you need a species of cowardly 
lemurs or if the big Imperial governor’s hacienda is on a marshy 
world, you already know your aliens will be little hyper mam­
mals or swamp-dwellers.

The more you can define your alien now, the better. As you 
go through the system, you’ll have the opportunity to go with  
your original ideas, or set off in a new direction. But it is always 
best to have a goal in mind before you start. Of course, it can 
also be a fun creative exercise to randomly generate a species 
and come up with creative solutions to each apparent contra­
diction. Work the way you feel most comfortable. 

ENVIRONMENT 

Begin your alien generation process by selecting an environ­
ment your alien species evolved in. Either roll 2D or pick one of 
the following as the primary species habitat: 

Dice Roll (D%)
11-13
14-16
21-23
24-26
31-33
34-36
41-43
44-46
51-53
54-56, 61-63
64-66

Terrain Result
Barren
Desert
Forest
Glacier
Jungle
Mountain
Ocean
Plains
Wetlands
Mixed
Exotic

Barren. Barren environments are typically arid ones, possibly 
with   hostile  environments.   The  ground  is   extremely  hard,   dry 
and cannot sustain most forms of life. The atmosphere is likely 
to be intolerable to humans. Aliens who thrive in a barren envi­
ronment may not find human-standard environments hospitable 
without breath masks or other life-support aids.

Desert.  Deserts   are  marked  by  a   lack  of  plant   cover  with 
large stretches of bare ground. These are harsh, dry ecosystems 
and both the plants and animals found here will be very hardy 
and   able   to   survive   a   long   time   without   food   or   water.   The 
ground on the desert may be rocky or sandy. Mountaintops can 
also be deserts due to the infertile ground and lack of rain. Tem­
peratures in the desert are not moderated by any humidity and 
will be hot in the day and cold at night. Very cold deserts are 
called tundras; the ground stays frozen all year long, although 
the surface may thaw during a warm season and allow plants to 
grow.

Forest.  Forests   occur   most   commonly   in   temperate   zones, 
but  they  can  also  occur in very cold or warm  areas  (see the 
“Jungle” entry for tropical forests). In great forest ecosystems, 
the trees will probably be the most prevalent forms of life — or 
at least the most obvious. Small plants do not survive well in 
large forests, though tiny ones thrive by living off the decay and 
the   refuse   of   the   trees.   Animals   flourish   in   forests,   most   of 
which are herbivores that subsist on the trees almost entirely. 
Carnivores keep the population of the herbivores under control, 
and they tend to be larger and stronger than carnivores in other 
areas.

Glacier.  Glaciers are huge frozen sheets of ice that can be 
several   kilometers   thick.   Some   places   are   permanently   locked 
into a frigid environment (such as polar regions and planets far 
from their stars’ warming rays), while others are simply passing 
through an ice age. In the former case, life will have evolved to 
thrive in this environment, and have suitable protection against 
the cold. In an ice age scenario, the dominant species may not 
be entirely adapted to the environment, but is hardy or clever 
enough to survive.

Jungle. Tropical forests that receive a great deal of precipita­
tion are called jungles or rain forests. These ecosystems support 
different subsystems at different heights in the trees. These may 
be so separated that there is no contact between the creatures 
in the canopy and those on the forest floor. 

Mountain. Mountainous planets have been (or still are) home 
to a great deal of geologic activity. The mountains may range 
from small hills to huge alps, but if they characterize a species’ 

main   environment,   they   are   probably   fairly   large.   Many   life­
forms live in mountainous environments. They are usually hardy, 
sure   of   foot,   and   accustomed   to   thriving   in   rarefied   atmos­
pheres.

Ocean.  A   species   from   an   ocean   environment   may   be   a 
marine life form or live primarily on the surface (like seabirds). 
Oceans may be very deep or merely large and shallow, depend­
ing   upon   whether   or   not   geologic   activity   has   created   great 
mountainous   regions   on   the   ocean   floor.   Ocean   depths   are 
sparsely inhabited and will have strange creatures unused to any 
light and living off the heat of volcanic vents. Coastal waters  
are the richest ecosystems with plenty of light and minerals and 
many forms of plant and animal life. On worlds with a large 
moon or those which circle a gas giant, coastal areas will be 
subject to tides that leave some land exposed part of the day. 
Such conditions often give rise to amphibious creatures.

Plains. Plains get less rainfall than forests and this keeps the 
plants from reaching great heights. Plains (or grasslands), may 
feature a tree or two, but they are few in number with a lot of  
space in between. Plains animals are often accustomed to trav­
eling great distances in search of food or water. Veldts (plains  
located in hot climates) have more types of life forms than cool 
grasslands. Herbivores   and  insects  live  on   the  plains, and the 
carnivores that prey on them tend to be speed-oriented. There 
aren’t as many places to hide in the grasslands, so the animal 
life must be fast, strong or both. 

Wetlands. Wetlands can take the form of ponds, marshes or 
swamps. Most wetlands are in warm climates, but this is not a 
prerequisite (bogs and fens are as likely to be found on highland 
moors as tropical river deltas). Wetlands support a vast array of 
lifeforms of every type. 

Mixed.  The environment is a combination of two other ter­
rain types. Roll twice on this table. You can discard contradicto­
ry results if you like, but it may be a fun challenge to invent an 
explanation for a desert-wetlands combination. Note that some 
apparently contradictory combinations are perfectly plausible. A 
glacier-plains combination, for example, describes a tundra per­
fectly. 

Exotic.  Exotic   environments   can   encompass   all   sorts   of 
unusual   conditions,   from   volcano   worlds   riddled   with   under­
ground caves, to rarefied strata of gas giant atmospheres (you 
can find some additional ideas in the “Planets” chapter). If you 
like, roll on this table again, ignoring this result. Use whatever is 
rolled as a “basis” for an alien ecosystem, then go from there. 
For example, if you roll “Forest,” the forest might be made of 
magnesium and heavy metal “trees” and have animals that feed 
on these compounds in it. 

SPECIES ORIGIN 

With your environment in mind, it’s time to select a basic ori­
gin for your species. The following categories are not all-inclu­
sive,   and   to   streamline   things   some   disparate   species   are 
grouped together. Feel free to further specialize the system if 
you’d like to get more specific. Select one of the following or 
roll 2D to get the basic biological form of your species ( the val­
ues are weighed in favor of species types common in the  Star 
Wars  galaxy, namely mammals, reptiles and insects). Disregard 

any   obvious   clashes   between   environment   and   origin   (unless 
you really want to explain aquatic aliens living in a desert). 

Dice Roll
(2D)
2
3
4-5
6-7
8-9
10
11
12

Origin Result
 Plant
 Soft Invertebrate
 Insect
 Reptile
 Mammal
 Hard Invertebrate
 Aquatic
 Avian

Plant. Plants synthesize energy from water, nutrients in soil, 
and sunlight. They are the lowest and most common niche in an 
ecosystem. They tend to be immobile and typically possess only 
passive natural defenses such as burrs.

Sentient plant species are usually immobile, but some species 
can move about in search of better soil, light or nutrients. They 
can   be   very   difficult   to   communicate   with   since   their   entire 
existence is based upon a life where food is present every day 
and they lack many concepts humans and other animals find 
natural. 

Soft   Invertebrate.

 Soft   invertebrates   include   species 
descended from soft-bodied creatures without bones, such  as 
worms,   slugs   or   snails,   or   octopus.   These   creatures   may   eat 
either plants or animals and can form colonies or stay indepen ­
dent. They can take many forms, and some species are able to 
change form as necessary. They usually move about using mus­
cles, and some creatures have very unusual internal structures 
that give them some of the rigidity necessary to enable swift  
movement. 

Insect. Insects are arthropods (for simplicity’s sake, arachnids 
are lumped in with insects). Most have well-defined segmented 
bodies consisting of a head, thorax and abdomen. Others have 
evolved   into   other   forms   (there   are   some   humanoid   insect 
species out there). Insects may have any number of jointed legs, 
usually   have   exoskeletons,   and   some   have   wings.   Sentient 
insects may be carnivores, omnivores, herbivores, or scavengers. 

Reptile.  Reptiles are cold-blooded vertebrates which usually 
have   a   bony   skeleton   and   a   body   covered   in   scales   or   bony 
plates species like snakes, lizards, turtles, or crocodiles. Most rep­
tile species live on land and lay eggs. These species may be car­
nivores, omnivores, herbivores, or scavengers. 

Mammal.  Mammals   are   warm-blooded   vertebrates   who 
nourish their young with milk secreted from mammary glands. 
Most mammals are covered in hair or fur (though like humans, 
body   hair   might   be   extremely   fine).   A   great   many   sentient 
species in the Star Wars galaxy are mammals. Mammals may be 
carnivores, omnivores, herbivores, or scavengers.

Hard Invertebrate.  Hard invertebrates have hard outer bod­
ies and no internal skeleton. They often have jointed legs. Exam­
ples include crustaceans and some flying creatures. These species 
can be very diverse. Technically, insects are also hard inverte­
brates, but they get their own category above. Most hard inver­
tebrates   are   carnivorous   or   scavengers,   but   some   may   be 
herbivores. 

Aquatic. This category includes species descended from crea­
tures that lived in marine environments. While these beings may 
be   amphibian,   mammalian,   reptilian,   or   fish-like,   they   are 
grouped into this one category to make indexing easier. These 
species may be carnivores, omnivores, herbivores or scavengers. 
Sentient   marine   beings   may   breathe   air   instead   of   water   if 
desired, or both. 

Avian. This category includes species descended from warm-
blooded, feathered, winged creatures. The species may still be 
able to fly, or might have evolved to live on the ground. Fliers 
normally  have   light   bones   or   incredibly   powerful   muscles,   so 
that they can stay aloft. These species may be carnivores, omni­
vores, herbivores, or scavengers. 

ECOLOGICAL NICHE 

With your species origin in mind, you can consider what role 
it played or continues to play in its ecology. Are your aliens her­
bivores   or  carnivores?   Deciding  what  niche   of   the   ecosystem 
your new species springs from goes a long way towards defining 
that species.

Determine   the   ecological   niche   of   your   species   by   either 
rolling 1D or picking one. Omnivores and carnivores are given a 
better chance of occurring because their dining habits encour­
age   both   aggression   and   innovation   —   presumably  important 
factors in developing sentience. 

Die Roll
(1D)
1
2-3
4-5
6 

Niche Result
 Herbivore
 Carnivore
 Omnivore
 Scavenger

 If your new alien is a plant life form, you can skip this step. 
Only  if  your  plant   is  carnivorous   or  otherwise  unusual   (aside 
from being mobile and sentient) do you need to worry about its 
ecological habits.

Herbivore. Herbivores are plant-eaters. Natural defenses can 
include acute senses, high movement speeds, armor, and natural 
weapons that can be used in combat.

Sentient   herbivores   may   be   skittish,   oriented   toward   large 
groups and not as aggressive as species descended from carni­
vores and omnivores. Herbivores tend to have speed or passive 
defenses (armor or camouflage for example) to protect them­
selves from predators. 

Carnivore.  Carnivores are meat-eaters, normally preying on 
herbivores or smaller and weaker carnivores. They often com­
pete with one other, although carnivores in the same ecosystem 
will often evolve unique abilities that differentiate them from 
other carnivore species.

There are few standard characteristics of carnivores: some are 
solitary while others are highly social and hunt in packs. Some 
carnivores are active only during daytime, others only at night; 
some are highly territorial, while others are migratory. In gener­
al, like most animals, carnivores will adopt behaviors most likely 
to preserve and continue the species.

Sentient carnivores are descended from hunters, and may be 
cunning, aggressive and violent. They may have special adapta­
tions, such as claws, poisonous bites or other items that enable 
them to attack and kill prey. Since the species has evolved intel­
ligence  and has  probably  begun  using  tools,  the  species  may 
have   lost   these   adaptations.   Carnivores   may   also   move   fast, 
though others might lie in wait for prey instead. 

Omnivore. Omnivores are creatures that eat both plants and 
animals.   They   usually   compete   with   carnivores   for   prey,   and 
often hunt some of the carnivores themselves. These creatures 
are highly variable, adopting whatever behaviors and evolving 
whatever traits are most likely to enable them to survive (those 
that don’t evolve die out).

Sentient omnivores can be competitive and aggressive, but 
may also be curious, eager for contact with new and unknown 
beings and cultures. They may have natural defensive abilities or 
offensive ones.

Scavenger. Scavengers are the final primary niche in ecosys­
tems. Scavengers survive by feeding off the remains of animals 
or plants after they have been killed. They are seldom as strong 
or dangerous as the hunters that made the kill, but do often 
have   formidable   natural   defenses.   (We   count   scavengers   as 
omnivores in the tables included later in this chapter.)

Because of the varied nature of homeworlds, there are no 
hard and fast characteristics of this species, except that because 
it is evolved from a scavenger, it is clearly not the most danger­
ous or powerful form of life on the planet. 

APPEARANCE 

The physical appearance of an alien will follow directly from 
the environment and evolutionary stock, so now that you have 
established   these   aspects   of   your   alien,   refine   its   physical 
appearance. Just knowing whether the alien is a reptile or insect 
gives you a big head-start.

Most Star Wars aliens are humanoids, so we can start there if 
we like by giving our alien two arms and two legs (or tentacles, 
maybe). Sentient beings need a way to manipulate their envi­
ronment, so they should have hands, pincers, suction cups or 
something at the end of at least one of these appendages. They 
also have heads in the usual place, though the appearance of 
the head, and the number of sensory organs located in it are for 
you to determine.

The other features of an intelligent species are likewise open 
to the imagination. If a species does not have a special need for 
camouflage it can be any color you like. Keep in mind that most 
creatures  evolve  towards  efficiency  and not  away  from  it,  so 
there shouldn’t be too many contrasting features on one crea­
ture.

You can take this opportunity to develop some of the biolog­
ical and cultural details of the species. How do the aliens repro­
duce, for example? Are there more (or less) than two sexes?

By the way, you might want to revisit this step after assign­
ing special abilities to your alien. Some special abilities can have 
a   big   impact   on   appearance.   For   example,   if   you   give   your 
species  the  ability  to  fly,   it  should  have   at   least   one   pair  of 
wings. 

TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT 

As intelligent species begin to develop, they form societies 
with a distinct culture. One measure of the development is the 
technological level achieved by the most advanced group of the 
species. Most newly discovered species in the frontier region of 
space have low technology levels. This is because as a species’ 
technology improves, the species is more likely to have already 
contacted galactic civilization. As one ventures further into the 
unexplored   wilderness,   the   probability   of   discovering   a   high 
technology species, while not great, does increase.

Bear in mind that not all cultures develop at the same pace, 
and that technological breakthroughs may come in a different 
order than they did on Earth (our own real-world model). For 
example,   one   society   may   develop   computers   without  having 
first developed printing presses, or continue to use steam-pow­
ered vehicles while developing space-worthy craft. 

Dice Roll
(2D)
2-5
6-8
9
10
11
12

Tech Result 
Stone
Feudal
Industrial
Atomic
Information
Space 

By the way, the reason we’re determining technological level 
now is so we know whether or not we need to add special skills 
to the alien’s stats. If the culture is at a Stone or Feudal level, 
we’ll   probably   have   to   include   some   specialized   primitive 
weapons skills.

Stone.  Stone-level   civilizations   are   marked   by   small   social 
groups, the use of simple tools and primitive agriculture. The 
tools are usually able to be made by anyone in the society and 
there   is   little   need   for   trade.   Food   can   be   provided   through 
hunting (if carnivorous) or gathering wild foods (if herbivorous) 
or  through   early  methods   of   cultivation.  Transportation   is   by 
foot, with  no organized  road  network. Com-munication is  by 
storytelling and pictures.

Feudal.  Feudal-level civilizations are distinguished by exten­
sive social contact on a regional basis and simple manufactured 
goods. The most advanced tools must be made by specialized 
workers and factories. Agriculture occupies most of the society 
and consists of herding bred animals or farming planted crops. 
Transportation is by harnessing animal, wind or water power; 
road networks do exist. Communication includes the use of a 
hand-written language. 

Industrial.  Industrial-level civilizations have the population 
split between agriculture and manufacturing, as society inter­
acts at a continental level. Mass production is used to create the 
most   advanced   tools.   Transportation   and   agriculture   become 
motorized   and   electricity   from   burning   fuels   is   the   common 
source of power. Communication includes the mass production 
of written text and simple electrical messages like the telegraph.

Atomic.  Atomic-level   civilizations   see   more   efficient   mass 
production,   and   manufactured   goods   become   available   on

almost all societal levels. Advanced alloys and plastics are pro­
duced, space travel begins, and transportation, communication, 
medicine and business fields continue to grow. 

Information.  Information-level   civilizations   have   a   global 
community,   marked   by   rapid   dispersal   of   information   to   all 
inhabited parts of the world. Automation dramatically increases 
efficiency in factories and agriculture. Atomic power and solar 
power are understood and used for large energy demands, while 
more   advanced   energy   sources   are   being   explored.   In-system 
space   travel   is   common   and   colony   ships   are   possible.   Early 
droids and energy weapons appear; repulsorlift is likely to be 
discovered soon. 

Space. The Old Republic, Empire, New Republic, and Galactic 
Alliance are all Space-level civilizations. These civilizations are 
characterized   by  extra-system   colonization,   hyperspace   travel, 
droids,   personal   energy   weapons,   and   very   efficient   industry. 
Multiple planets may be economically interdependent. 

CREATING STATS 

Having established  a  background and appearance  for your 
alien, we need to move into generating some game stats for it. 
Here’s  what  a blank alien  template  looks  like. To create your 
alien, you need to fill each of these slots: 

 ALIEN STAT TEMPLATE

ATTRIBUTE DIE RANGES 

Each species has a separate listing for each attribute (Dexter­
ity, Knowledge, Mechanical, Perception, Strength, and Technical) 
that looks something like this: 1D/4D+2. This value is your die 
range: in allocating attribute dice to attributes, you cannot go 
below the first number or above the second number.

Humans, representing the default average in the  Star Wars 
rules, have a 2D/4D minimum/maximum in all attributes. Aliens 
vary more because they have particular strengths and weakness­
es humans do not have; one species may be extremely strong 
but also poor in mechanical skills while another is highly per­
ceptive but clumsy.

You can allocate die ranges however you like. Often, deci­
sions you have already made about your species will guide you 
toward certain ranges. For example, if you have already decided 
that your species is fast and small, you may well assign a higher 
die range to Dexterity and a lower range to Strength to reflect 
both the alien’s speed in combat and its overall weakness (in 
general,   small   beings   possess   less   physical   strength   than   big 
ones). Be reluctant to go below 1D or above 6D without good 
reason (in the latter case remember that players using your alien 
will start off with 6D in every skill under the relevant attribute 
before  allocating attribute dice — a potentially game-wrecking 
situation).

If  you   haven’t   made  these  decisions,  you   can   either   make 

them now or roll 3D on the following table for each attribute: 

Attribute Dice:
DEXTERITY
KNOWLEDGE
MECHANICAL
PERCEPTION
STRENGTH
TECHNICAL
Special Skills:
Special Abilities:
Story Factors:
Move:
Size: 

ATTRIBUTE DICE 

Attribute dice are the building blocks  of your species. The 
value in this slot determines how many dice and pips can be dis­
tributed among the attributes when creating a new representa­
tive of this species.

A value of 12D is considered average in the Star Wars game 
system, so most gamemaster characters should be in that range 
(some species will be somewhat more or less capable than the 
norm, of course). Add 6D to that base level for player characters 
and   key   gamemaster   characters   to   represent   their   superior 
hero/villain status.

Use this table if you’d like to generate random results: 

Roll (2D)
2
3
4
5-6
7-9
10-11
12 

Attribute Dice
8D
9D
10D
11D
12D
13D
14D

Roll
(3D)
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18

Attribute
1D/2D
1D/2D+1
1D/2D+2
1D+1/3D
1D+1/3D
1D+1/3D+1
1D+2/3D+1
1D+2/3D+2
1D+2/3D+2
2D/4D
2D/4D
2D/4D
2D+1/4D+1
2D+2/4D+2
3D/5D
4D/6D 

When you’ve finished determining your die ranges, add up 
your minimums to make sure they are equal to or below the 
attribute dice. Then add up the maximums to ensure they are at 
least  6D above the attribute dice. If something is amiss, tweak 
the ranges until everything squares up. 

SPECIAL SKILLS 

By now you should have a good idea of what sort of alien is 
taking shape. Here is where it starts to take on personality in 
terms of game stats. If your species has any unique or special­
ized skills, list them here.

wings   and   a   corresponding   ability   to   fly   a   special 
ability. (Don’t get confused if you find a few aliens 
published   in   other  Star   Wars  D6   books   that   seem 
inconsistent with the instructions in this paragraph — 
over the years, some inconsistent applications of this 
rule have crept into the game. It isn’t a serious prob­
lem, mind you; we just mention it so you know that 
there are exceptions to the rule floating around out 
there.)

Don’t feel that you simply  must  generate special 
skills for your alien, by the way. If a compelling justi­
fication for including them isn’t suggesting itself to 
you, you can probably skip this step and not lose any 
sleep about it. The majority of aliens in this book lack 
special skills, including most of those from primitive 
societies.

Because special skills are not often used in design­
ing a new alien, we’re not offering an exhaustive list 
of  random  solutions.  If  you’re  randomly generating 
an alien, either skip this step entirely or pick one of 
the samples listed below:

• Dexterity skills:

Thrown Weapons: bows, rocks, sling, spear:  Time 
to use: One round. The character may take the base 
skill and/or any of the specializations. 

• Knowledge skills:

Agriculture:  Time   to   use:   at   least   one   standard 
week. The character has a good working knowledge 
of crops and animal herds, and can suggest appropri­
ate crops for a type of soil, or explain why crop yields 

have been affected.

• Mechanical skills:

Beast riding: bantha:  Beginning characters must allocate a 

minimum of 1D to this beast riding specialization.

• Strength skills:

Flight: Time to use: one round. Use this skill when the char­
acters flies. The character begins with a flying speed of 30 and 
may improve his flying speed as described in the “Movement & 
Chases” chapter. 

SPECIAL ABILITIES 

Special abilities are species-wide traits which help the alien 
thrive in its natural environment. These are generally physiologi­
cal  traits,  such  as  natural   weapons   and  armor  (claws,  barbed 
tails, tough hides, and the like), but can also indicate special 
aptitudes such a talent for picking up alien languages.

What is true of all special abilities is that they are specific to 
the species in question; they cannot be learned by members of 
other species. This is the biggest difference between special skills 
and special abilities.

There are a couple of ways to approach this section. You can 
simply peruse the lists of aliens provide in various Star Wars D6 
supplements if you like, picking and choosing whichever special 
abilities appeal to you. You can also obtain random results if you 
prefer — just be sure that the special abilities you wind up with 
work with your alien (desert-dwelling mammals with the ability 
to breathe underwater might excite some comment among your 
players).

Most  special   skills   reflect   knowledge  picked   up  living  life­
styles different from the galactic norm. Now that you know the 
tech level of your species, decide if new skills are warranted. In 
general, the closer the species is to the Space tech level, the less 
need there is for special skills. (An exception is a species which 
has developed an alternative advanced technology which has no 
direct counterpart in galactic society.)

Primitive cultures, on the other hand, rely on skills long dis­
carded  by more  advanced  societies.  A  member  of  a  primitive 
culture may be adept at using a bow or spear, farming, crafting 
war   chariots,   or   using   banthas   for   transportation.   You   may 
either give the alien the option of taking these new skills or 
compel him to do so (giving an alien a beginning bonus in tak­
ing certain skills is a special ability — see below).

Other special skills reflect differences in an alien’s physiology 
that make performing new tasks possible.  Flight  is a common 
special skill based on a physical attribute — that of possessing 
wings and a light aerodynamic body. Other possibilities include 
telepathy  or   a   fighting   style   dependent   on   having   a   certain 
number of limbs. Particular alien species may actually be so dif­
ferent they must have new skills to replace the normal ones. For 
example,   a   gelatinous   species   may   use  aversion  instead   of 
dodge  because they can actually change shape fast enough to 
avoid blaster bolts.

Note that special skills of this type merely reflect the use of a 
unique physiological trait. The trait itself is listed under special 
abilities (which we’ll get to in just a moment). For example, an 
alien   cannot  have   a   special   skill   of  flight  unless   he  also  has

Alternatively, you can buy attributes at a cost of 1D, using 
dice from your pool of attribute dice (you get 1D back for every 
penalty you buy). This method is a good one to use if you are 
letting   your   players   design   their   own   new   species,   since   it 
encourages economy.

Naturally,   this   section   just   scratches   the   surface   when   it 
comes to special abilities. If you don’t see a special ability here 
you’d like to use for your alien, find an alien from another Star 
Wars D6 resource who does have it and borrow it, or make up 
your own.

If you want help in determining how many special abilities 

your alien has, roll on the following table: 

Roll (3D)
3
4-6
7-9
10-14
15-18

Number of
Special Abilities
4
3
2
1
0

Natural Weapons

Does your alien have an natural weapons? If so, you’ll need 
to determine what sort it has. Remember that your alien doesn’t 
need to be a predator in order to have weapons like claws or 
sharp teeth; many herbivores have defensive weapons as well.

The   default   damage   done   by   natural   weapons   on   the 
Weapons Table is STR+1D. To generate another value, either pick 
one or roll on the table below: 

Roll
(2D)
1-3
4-5
6-7
8-9
10
11
12

Result
STR damage
STR+1 damage
STR+2 damage
STR+1D damage
STR+1D+2 damage
STR+2D damage
STR+3D damage

Natural Armor

Does your alien have some sort of natural protection against 
his enemies? If so, you need to decide what sort of armor it is, 
and  how   much   protection   it   affords.   Armor  can   be  anything 
from a thick layer of blubber to scales to chitinous armor plat­
ing.

The default armor bonus on the Natural Armor Table, is +1D 
(and +2D in cases where a contrast is needed). Again, replace it 
if you like by rolling on Default Armor Bonus table below:

Roll
(1D)
1
2
3
4
5
6

Result
+1
+2
+1D
+1D+1
+1D+2
+2D 

WEAPONS TABLE

Roll
(2D)
2

3

4
5

6
7
8

9

10
11

12

Result
Claws: Alien can use his claws to inflict STR+1D 
damage.
Tail: Alien can use his tail as a weapon to do 
STR+ 1D damage.
Fangs: Alien’s sharp teeth do STR+1D damage.
Tusks: The sharp tusks of the alien inflict STR+1D 
damage. 
Beak: Alien’s sharp beak inflicts STR+1D damage.
Kick: Alien’s powerful kick does STR+1D damage.
Talons: Alien’s powerful talons do STR+1D 
damage
Pincers: Alien pincers are sharp and very strong, 
inflicting STR+1D damage.
Trampling: Alien tramples for STR+1D damage.
Body Spikes: Alien can use these sharp weapons 
in combat, causing STR+1D damage.
Venom: Does STR+1D damage in stun damage 
only. 

NATURAL ARMOR TABLE 

Roll
(1D)
1-2

3-4

5-6

Result
Natural Body Armor: The alien’s thick hide 
provides + 1 D against physical attacks. It gives 
no bonus against energy attacks.
Natural Body Armor: The alien’s thick hide 
provides + 1 D against both physical and 
energy attacks.
Natural Body Armor: The alien’s thick hide 
provides +2D against physical and +1D against 
energy attacks

 Other Special Abilities

Aside from weapons and natural armor, there are several oth­
er types of special abilities. These are tackled in the next few  
sections. You probably won’t be use all of the sections for one 
species unless you want to decorate your alien like a Christmas 
tree.

Again, you can browse the lists at your leisure or let the dice 

decide using the table below:

Roll (1D)
1-2
3-4
5-6

Result
Skill Bonus
Constant Ability
Beginning Character Ability

Skill Bonus.  Some special abilities add a bonus to a certain 
skill   at   all   times.   For   example,   Noghri   have   natural  stealth; 
whenever  they  use  hide  and  sneak  skills, they  receive  a  +2D 
bonus. You can easily modify many of these choices by substi­
tuting new skills.

Beginning   Character   Abilities.  Still   other   special   abilities 
provide a bonus at the time a character is created. New Ewok 
characters receive 2D for every 1D they spend on hide, search 

SKILL BONUS TABLE

Roll
(3D)
3

4

5

6
7
8

9
10
11
12
13

14

15
16

17
18

Ability Result
Climbing Claws: Alien has climbing claws which are used for climbing only. They add +2D to his climbing skill 
while use the claws.
Jumping: Alien’s strong legs gives him a remarkable jumping ability. He receives a +2D bonus for his jumping 
skill.
Natural Camouflage: The alien gets +2D to sneak in his natural terrain (insert the appropriate environment 
here). This advantage is negated when the alien is not in this terrain.
Prehensile Tail: The alien has a prehensile tails and can use it as an extra limb at +1D+1 to his Dexterity.
Special Balance: +2D to all actions involving climbing, jumping, acrobatics, or other actions requiring balance.
Stamina: Due to the harsh nature of his homeworld, the alien receives a +21D bonus whenever he rolls his 
stamina and willpower skills.
Stealth: Alien has such a natural ability to be stealthy that he receives +2D when using his hide or sneak skills.
Swimming: Swimming comes naturally to the alien, who gains + 1D to dodge and +3 to Move underwater. 
Agriculture: Alien receive a +2D bonus to his agriculture (a Knowledge skill) rolls.
Intimidation: Alien gains +1D when using intimidation due to his fearsome appearance.
Teaching Ability: The alien may advance all specializations of the scholar skill at half the normal Character 
Point cost.
Wilderness Survival: Alien has an innate sense of survival in wilderness terrains and gets a +1D when making 
survival rolls regarding either mountains or plains. 
Enhanced Vision: Alien adds +2D to search rolls based on visual acuity.
Musical Aptitude: Alien a talent for music, and gains a +1D bonus to any skill rolls that involve music (singing, 
playing instruments, etc.)
Acute Senses: Because of his keen eyesight and hearing, the alien receives a + 1D when using the search skill.
Sense Vibrations: Alien is attuned to movements and vibrations and can sense approaching objects in contact 
with the ground up to 60 meters away. Using this ability requires a Very Easy Perception roll. 

BEGINNING CHARACTER ABILITIES TABLE

Roll
(2D)
2

3

4

5

6

7
8

9

10

11

12

Ability Result
Affinity for Business: At the time of character creation only, the character receives 2D for every 1D of skill dice 
allocated to bureaucracy, business, bargain, or value.
Aquatic Survival: At the time of character creation only, the character receives 2D for very 1D allocated to the 
swimming and survival: aquatic skills.
Climbing: At the time of character creation only, the character receives 2D for every 1D allocated to 
climbing/jumping.
Combat Finesse: At the time of character creation only, the character receives 2D for every 1D allocated to the 
melee weapons, brawling and thrown weapons skills.
Cultural Learning: At the time of character creation only, character receives 2D for every 1D of skill dice allocated 
to cultures, languages or value.
Dexterous: At the time of character creation only, character gets +2D bonus skill dice to add to Dexterity skills. 
Farming: At the time of character creation only, the character receives +2D bonus skill dice, which may only be 
used to improve the following skills: agriculture, business, ecology, value, weather prediction, bargain, persuasion, 
and first aid.
Weapons Knowledge: Because of great technical aptitude, the character receives an extra 1D at the time of 
character creation only which must be placed in blaster repair, capital starship weapon repair, firearms repair, 
melee weapon repair, starship weapon repair or an equivalent weapon repair skill.
Mechanical Aptitude: At the time of character creation only, the character receives 2D for every 1D allocated to 
any Mechanical skills.
Stealthy: At the time of character creation only, the character receives 2D for every 1D allocated to the hide, 
search and sneak skills.
Technical Aptitude: At the time of character creation only, character receives 2D for every 1D allocated to any 
Technical skills. 

CONSTANT ABILITIES TABLE 

Roll
(2D)
2-3
4-5

6-7

8-9

10-11
12

Ability Result
Aquatic: Alien can breathe both air and water and can withstand extreme pressures found in ocean depths.
Flight: Alien can fly at a Move of 14 and may improve flying Move as described in the Skills and Attributes chapter. The 
alien can use flying in conjunction with one other skill in the same round without the normal −1D penalty.
Gliding: Alien can glide. On standard-gravity worlds, he can glide up to 15 meters per round; on light-gravity worlds he 
can glide up to 30 meters per round; and on heavy-gravity worlds, that distance is reduced to 5 meters.
Infrared Vision: Alien can see in the infrared spectrum, giving him the ability to see in complete darkness if there are 
heat sources to navigate by.
Night Vision: Alien has excellent night vision and can see in darkness with no penalty.
High-Temperature Tolerance: Alien can endure hot, arid climates, and suffers no ill effects from high temperatures 
(until they reach 85 degrees Celsius).

PENALTY ABILITIES TABLE

Roll
(2D)
2-3

4-5

6-7

8-9

10-11

12

Ability Result
Delicate Build: Due to the alien’s fragile bone structure, he suffers a −2 modifier to all Strength rolls to resist 
damage.
Breath Masks: To survive in standard atmospheres, alien must wear a breath mask. Without the mask, it suffers a 
−1D penalty to all skills and attributes.
Technological Ignorance: Alien knows almost nothing about technology and has a difficult time grasping new 
concepts. He suffers a −1D penalty whenever he attempts to use any item more advanced than simple stone age-
era tools (until gamemaster deems he has become acclimated to them).
Light Gravity: Alien is native to a light-gravity world. When on standard-gravity worlds, reduce his Move by −3. 
Unless he’s wearing a special power harness on such worlds, also reduce his Strength and Dexterity by −1D 
(minimum of +2; he can still roll, hoping to get a “Wild Die” result). 
Poor Vision: Alien has poor vision and suffers a −1D penalty for actions involving vision at a range of greater than 
50 meters.
Voice Box: Alien is unable to pronounce Basic, although he can understand it perfectly well. 

STORY FACTORS TABLE

Roll
(1D)
1
2

3

4

5

6

Result
Aggressive: Members of this species are very aggressive and respect only power.
Blood feud: The alien species has declared a blood feud with another species due to some great disagreement. Members 
of this species are morally obligated to seek the death of any member of the other species they encounter.
Enslaved: The species has been enslaved en mass by the Empire. Its members are restricted to labor camps on their 
homeworld, and those who travel the stars are in constant danger of being captured and returned.
Religious Observances: Members of this species are forbidden to eat in the company of aliens or sleep in the same 
room.
Pacifist: The alien’s culture is traditionally against violence in any form. Individual members may flout this taboo, but 
are cast out of their society if they are found out. 
Wealth: The species is a very wealthy one, and most of its members have a very high standard of living. 

and  sneak  skills. Sluissi receive an extra 4D for beginning skill 
dice  which   must  be  applied  to  Technical  skills, and may  also 
place up to 4D in a beginning Technical skill instead of the nor­
mal 2D limit.

Constant   Abilities.  Other   special   abilities   do   not   directly 
impact the mechanics of the game; they simply allow an alien 
to do things other aliens can’t. The bird-like Shashay can use 
their wings  to  glide through  the  air.  Balinaka  can  see in the 
dark. Quarren can breathe both water and air with no penalties.

Penalties.  Aliens  are  not all  advantages   and  no disadvan­
tages. There are downsides too. If some sort of penalty makes 
sense to you, either for play balance or because the alien’s back­
ground demands it, you can find a good sampling of negative 
special abilities in the Special Abilities tables above.

STORY FACTORS

Story   factors   affect   most,   if   not   all,   members   of   given 
species. Story factors include notes on the alien’s culture, life 
cycle or beliefs other people hold about the species in general. 

Examples include the Wookiee’s reputation for ferocity, the fact 
that all Noghri are sworn to serve Darth Vader and his family, 
and that Rodians are often bounty hunters and therefore feared 
by other species.

Story factors are usually very specific to the culture and situ­
ation of the species. You should develop them to fit the alien 
rather than the other way around. The Story Factors table pro­
vides a few examples you can use as a basis for your own story  
factors.

MOVE AND SIZE

We’re almost at the bottom of the list. Just roll on the fol ­
lowing table twice (once for Move and once for Height), and 
you’re finished.

If   your   alien   is   not   a   humanoid,   you   might   have   to   play 
around   with   the   height   a   bit.   Move   also   doesn’t   take   into 
account special abilities such as swimming or flying (add 3-5 
points to Move in these cases).

Roll
(3D)
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18

Move
4/5
5/6
7/9
8/10
9/11
10/12
10/12
10/13
10/13
10/14
10/14
10/14
12/15
12/16
13/17
14/18

Height
(in meters)
0.8
0.9
1.0
1.2
1.4
1.6
1.6
1.8
1.8
2.0
2.2
2.4
2.6
2.8
3.0
3.2

WRAP-UP

At this point, you probably have a jumble of notes and some 
stats for your alien. Now you need to finish fleshing out the cul­
ture and society of your species. Use the stats and results you’ve 
gotten thus far as raw material for developing your aliens. You 
might need to make adjustments.

What is the basic psychological profile of the species? Are 
they quick to anger, or are they cunning and crafty? How do 
these aliens behave in the face of danger?

The   creator   must   decide   how   the   alien   species’   society   is 
structured,   and  how   this   structure  has   been   modified  by  the 
presence of the Imperial and New Republic governments. Do the 
aliens still have their own government, or were they subjugated 
by the Empire (as an aside, the Empire very rarely toppled the 
native power structure — as long as the government was sub­
servient to Emperor Palpatine, the local governors seldom saw 
the need to replace the existing bureaucrats). If you are playing 
in the New Republic setting, are the aliens allied with the New 
Republic, the Empire, or are they staying neutral?

What kind of government do the aliens have? Do they elect 
officials, or have tribal representatives, or is the whole species 
run by a giant corporation? Is the government answerable to 
the people, or does the government control the behavior of citi­
zens? Do the aliens even have a government?

Are   the   aliens   strictly   hierarchical,   or   are   members   of   the 
society   individualistic,   preferring   to   personally   make   choices 
about things like their career and mate?

What does the species value: wealth, family ties, exploration, 
scientific discovery or something else? What kinds of careers do 
the aliens pursue — do they like to be traders, scientists, adven­
turers, or a variety of things? Do the aliens pick one career and 
stick with it, or do they change careers, jobs, homes, and even 
mates with amazing swiftness?

How much contact has the species had with the galaxy? Have 
they traveled the starlanes for thousands of years, or were they  
discovered   and   subjugated   by   the   Empire   in   the   past   few 
decades? How much technology did the species develop on its 
own,   and   how   well   are   the 
people   adapting   to   any   new 
technology  
introduced   by 
traders and explorers?

Have the aliens spread from 
their homeworld to other plan­
ets? Do they have a number of 
colonies,   or   have   large   num­
bers of them emigrated to oth­
er   planets   in   search   of 
employment,   wealth,   adven­
ture or something else?

During   the   process,   if   you 
see a new direction you’d like 
to   go   in,   go   for   it.   Don’t   be 
afraid to go back and change 
things   just   because   you’ve 
already decided an  issue. Cre­
ation is a malleable and fluctu­
ating   process.   Go   with   it   ad 
have fun!

CHAPTER SEVENTEEN

17 CREATURES

In my  time with the Rebel Alliance, I have seen  
many   wonderful   and   unusual   things,   from   vast  
fleets of starships engaged in fierce battle, to dens  
of iniquity that would make the most grizzled Corel­
lian pirate uneasy.

One of my missions after the Battle of Endor was  
to examine the headquarters of an Imperial gover­
nor in Parmic sector; the “Laramus Base Irregulars”  
had finally succeeded in toppling Moff Abran  
Balfour,   and   my   job   was   to   sift   through  
Imperial records captured in the battle.

Upon arriving at Spice Terminus (the loca­
tion of Balfour’s private fortress), I discovered  
an unusual feature of the Moff’s lair: a com­
plete   menagerie   of   non-sentient,   exotic   crea­
tures.   As   I   reviewed   Balfour’s   records,   I  
inadvertently  triggered  some  kind   of  automated  
defense   mechanism;   a   trapdoor   opened   up  
beneath me and sent me spiraling into the heart  

of his zoo.

I found myself surrounded by a bewilder­
ing   array   of   animals   —   hissing,   purring,  
growling, thrashing, flying — that  seemed  
to   cover   every   evolutionary   possibility.  
According to the report filed by the Lara­
mus Irregulars, they could “hear Na’al’s  

screams in vacuum.”

According to General Cracken, this  
makes   me   “uniquely  qualified   to  dis­
cuss non-sentient life forms.”

I   will   never   understand   military  

humor.

Creatures in game terms are non-sentient living beings that 
do not use rational thought processes to interpret their environ­
ment; instead, creatures rely on instinct.

This does not mean that all creatures are stupid; many are 
quite clever, and can even learn commands and simple tricks, 
but they are not considered truly intelligent: they are essentially 
animals.

Creatures do not possess the same number of attributes as 
sentient species; creatures are limited to  Dexterity,  Perception 
and Strength.

ROLE OF 
CREATURES IN THE GAME

Creatures can be used in a Star Wars roleplaying session in a 
number of ways. Most often, creatures are overlooked, viewed 
simply as opponents in a combat situation. While this view is 
not without precedent (witness the fearsome Wampa from The  
Empire Strikes Back), these exotic animals can be useful in a 
variety of ways. At  the end of this  chapter are a number of 
common creatures that gamemasters can use to spice up a role­
playing session.

Transport and Pack Animals

One of the first (and most memorable) creatures seen in the 
Star Wars trilogy is the Bantha, a massive, horned beast of bur­
den.  Animals  of   this   type   can   be   extremely   useful   to   a 
gamemaster trying to give a setting a more primitive feel; the 
players will know their characters are in a wild, untamed region 
if they are forced to rely on pack animals to get from place to 
place, instead of using more high-tech transportation.

Pet

Some animals can be kept as pets, and even trained to per­
form useful tasks. Perhaps a player character can train an agile 
creature   to   fetch   small   items   that   have   been   dropped,   or  to 
screech a warning when an unfamiliar person approaches. While 
the training of such a creature should not dominate a roleplay ­
ing session, a pet can add color and humor to a Star Wars game.

Food

One   often-overlooked   use   for   creatures   in   the   roleplaying 
game is simply food. When stranded on an alien planet, charac­
ters may be forced to hunt to replenish dwindling food stores. 
These   scenes   can   be   roleplayed   out   to   great   effect,   and   can 
often lead to some exciting chases and plot twists. Animal hides 
and bones can also be useful in emergencies, particularly if the 
player characters need to fashion simple tools.

Predators

Perhaps the most common “game use” for creatures, predato­
ry animals can be used to add some surprise and excitement to a 
roleplaying session. Canny gamemasters can use these encoun­
ters to complicate matters for the players. For example, as the 
player characters sneak through an alien forest to ambush an 
Imperial patrol, they are suddenly attacked by a cluster of fero­
cious vine snakes. The characters must deal with the situation 
quietly or risk alerting the Imperials to the impending ambush.

ENCOUNTERS

When   characters   visit   new   worlds   they   will   inevitably 
encounter   the   native   life   forms.   The   reaction   of   these   forms 
depends upon how familiar the characters are to the creatures: 
if the characters are similar to predators, herbivores are likely to 
flee. If the characters appear similar to the prey of a predator, 
they may be attacked. Particularly territorial or brutal predators 
might attack the characters simply for being in their territory. 
Some life forms will ignore the characters completely.

Gamemasters   are   encouraged   to   use   creatures   that   steal 
“shiny   objects,”   (like   blaster   power   packs   or   credit   vouchers), 
packs   of   running  animals   that   storm   through   the   characters’ 
camp, or anything else that may surprise the player characters.

GAME STATISTICS

ber   of   game   statistics.   These   are  “average”  stats   —   individual 
creatures can vary considerably. They are listed as follows.

Type: A quick summary and classification of the creature.

Attributes   and   Skills:  Non-intelligent   creatures   have   only 
Dexterity,  Perception  and  Strength  attributes.   Some   creatures 
have skills, such as brawling, climbing/jumping or swimming.

Creatures use their Strength or brawling skill to hit in com­
bat, as well as their Strength to determine damage. (Some crea­
tures have claws or teeth which can do extra damage; they’re 
listed under “Special Abilities.”)

Special Abilities:  These listings note any special abilities or 
natural tools that help the creature. Special abilities may include 
claws, armor, the ability to breathe water or any number of oth­
er tools or abilities.

Move: The average Move for the creature. If the creature has 

two or more prime modes of movement, all will be listed.

Size: A common size range for adult specimens of the crea­

ture.

Scale:  Normally creatures will be “creature” scale (which is 
the same as “character” scale). This listing will be given only if 
the creature is not creature scale.

Orneriness: If the creature can be ridden, an orneriness code 
will be listed. This die code is rolled against the rider’s beast rid­
ing skill to see if the rider can maintain control of the creature 
in dangerous situations.

CREATURES OF THE GALAXY

This section contains sample beasts from the Star Wars fea­
ture   films,   the  expanded  Star  Wars  universe,   and  even   some 
original creations. Each description includes statistics for a typi­
cal member of the species.

ACKLAY

The   acklay   is   a   non-sentient   carnivore   native   to   Vendaxa. 
Acklays have sharp claws, thick skin, and average 3 meters tall. 
Due to these attributes, as well as the species’ ferocity, acklays 
are often exported from Vendaxa to be used in gladiatorial com­
bat. The creatures can be found on Geonosis, where they are 
commonly brought in to fight other creatures — and sentients — 
in the Petranaki arena. 

Though acklays live underwater, they can go on land to hunt, 
which they frequently do, as the lemnai, a creature that lives on 
the   plains   of  Vendaxa,   is  their   main  source  of   food.   As  they 
reside in the oceans of Vendaxa, their eyes enable them to see in 
darkness,   although   they   are   near-sighted.   Despite   their   crus­
tacean-like nature, acklays also have characteristics possessed by 
reptiles, such as their powerful jaws filled with sharp teeth. The 
acklay has a tough, leathery skin that ranges in color from green 
to brown, another trait from its reptilian heritage. Its belly is  
more vulnerable than other parts of its body, as the flesh cover­
ing it is not as tough as it is elsewhere. Acklays have a bony 
crest around their neck, used for both intimidation and protec­
tion.

Acklays have small stomachs, but are capable of expanding 
them when necessary. They have a high metabolism, which gives 
them substantial amounts of energy, but also causes them to 
starve quickly. 

Each acklay has six deadly claws, used for both pinning an 
opponent in combat or slicing them. Their limbs are long, allow­
ing them to strike at enemies from a distance. While their claws 
—  actually   fingertips   covered   by   hardened   skin   —  themselves 
have no feeling, hairs on their bodies allow the creatures the 
sensation of touch. These cilia also enable an acklay to sense the 
neuro-electric energy of other life-forms. The acklay’s exoskele­
ton is strong enough to be used by some cultures as chitinous 
personal body armor. Although not high tech, it is occasionally 
used as a trophy item.

Acklays can be Force-sensitive, although this is an extremely 
rare mutation. Such creatures can teach themselves to use the 
Force and can fire Force lightning from their mouths.

 ACKLAY

Type: Aquatic Predator
DEXTERITY 1D+1
PERCEPTION 2D+1
Search 6D
STRENGTH 7D
Climbing/jumping 8D
Special Abilities:
Armor:  The  natural armor of  the  acklay grants  it  a +2D  bonus  to 

Strength when resisting physical damage.

Bite: Does Strength+2 damage.
Claws: Do Strength+1D damage.
Exceptional Reflexes: Acklays gain a +1D bonus to all
Perception rolls made to determine initiative.
Resistant to Radiation:  Acklays gain a +1D bonus to  Strength  when 

resisting the effects of harmful radiation.

Move: 12
Size: 6 meters long

AIWHA

A giant flying creature that lives on watery planets such as 
Kamino and Naboo, the aiwha uses its large wing-fins to swim 
underwater and to fly through the sky. Kaminoans keep large 
herds of aiwhas to serve as domesticated riding beasts, since the 
creatures  can  traverse the perpetually  stormy  seas  of  Kamino 
with relative ease. The Gungans of Naboo train the beasts to 
provide airborne transportation and use them in war for recon­
naissance patrols and as bombers. Given the striking similarities 
between the two species, the aiwhas and the thrantas of Alder­
aan are believed to share a common ancestor, although no rela­
tion has been conclusively proven.

 AIWHA

Type: Aquatic herd animal
DEXTERITY 1D+1
PERCEPTION 2D+1
STRENGTH 6D
Swimming 8D
Special Abilities:
Slamming:  Aiwhas   can   slam   against   an   opponent,   doing   STR+2D 

damage.

Move: 20 (swimming or flying)
Size: 20-30 meters wingspan
Orneriness: 1D

BANTHA

Banthas   are   large,   oxygen-breathing,   carbon-based   herbi­
vores adapted to plains environments. Adults stand two to three 
meters at the shoulder, the male being slightly larger than the 
female. Paired spiral horns grow from the skulls of males.

Banthas are extremely adaptable animals, surviving comfort­
ably in climates ranging from deserts to tundra, and have been 
known to go weeks without either food or water.

No   one   knows   what   world   banthas   originally   came   from. 
They have existed since prehistoric times on at least a dozen 
planets in the galaxy. On the planets where banthas thrive, they 
have established a niche in the planetary ecology. Because ban­
thas have existed on so many different worlds for so long, a cer­
tain amount of genetic drift is to be expected — and, indeed, it 
has occurred. Bantha subspecies vary considerably in size, col­
oration, social grouping, behavior, and metabolic specifics.

Wild   bantha   herds   thunder   across   many   worlds.   Bantha 
herders raise the docile beasts for food and clothing. In many 
systems, travelers can find restaurants that serve bantha steaks, 
and   bantha-skin   boots   and   cloaks   are   popular   accessories 
among the upper classes.

Because of their great size, strength and adaptability to harsh 
climates, banthas make excellent beasts of burden. Many inhab­
itants of dusty Tatooine employ the bantha as a mount and pack 
animal, including the elusive and dangerous Sand People.

Banthas are peaceful herbivores with few natural enemies. In 
the wild, they fight only in defense of their young and the herd. 
When  attacked, banthas usually flee. When  trapped, or when 
young banthas must be defended, male banthas form a circle 
around   their   calves   and   cows.   They   attack   by   lowering   their 
heads and tossing their horns.

Some domesticated banthas have been trained as war ani­
mals. War banthas charge the enemy, trampling them underfoot. 
Many people will encounter domesticated banthas as beasts of 
burden or mounts. As mounts, they are controlled by a drover, 
who transmits his commands to the beast by tapping the ban­
tha’s head and flanks with a stick. A bantha can carry up to 500 
kilos of cargo, or a drover plus up to four other characters. The 
rocking gait of the bantha  has been known to cause motion 
sickness in riders. 

 BANTHA

Type: Domesticated pack animal
DEXTERITY 2D
PERCEPTION 2D
STRENGTH 8D
Special Abilities:
Horns: STR −1D damage
Trample: STR damage
Move: 5
Size: 2-3 meters at the shoulder
Orneriness: 2D

BELDON

Beldons are among the largest animals in the galaxy. These 
immense floaters appear as huge gas bags riding on the wind 
currents in the colorful Bespin sky.

Theories   persist  that   beldons   give   off   natural   tibanna   gas, 
and as such, these animals are protected by law. They are gentle 
animals, sometimes traveling in herds, feeding off the algae and 
nutrients that lie suspended in the clouds.

 BELDON

Type: Atmospheric floater
DEXTERITY 1D
PERCEPTION 4D
STRENGTH 9D
Special Abilities:
Electrolocomotion:  Beldons   gen­
erate an electrical field which 
allows  them  to  maneuver  in 
the clouds of Bespin.

Electrolocation: Beldons are sen­
sitive   to   disturbances   in   the 
electrical   field   surrounding 
them.   They   have   effective 
scan   sensors   capability   of 
2km/1D.

Move: 70; 200 km/h
Size: 800 meters to 10 kilometers
Scale: Walker

CORELLIAN BANSHEE BIRD

The Corellian banshee bird is a dangerous avian predator that 
gets its name from its distinctive wail. The screech of a banshee 
bird can be heard from miles away, and the creature typically 
uses it to flush out hidden prey as it swoops down on a hunting 
ground.   On   Corellia,   banshee   birds  are   often   sought  after  by 
wealthy individuals and off-world nobles as pets; like many oth­
er birds, banshee birds can be tamed by a skilled trainer and 
made   into   relatively   domesticated   creatures. 
However, unlike other birds, banshee birds 
cannot be kept caged for any signifi­
cant   amount   of   time;   they   are 
extremely   claustrophobic   crea­
tures, and as a result those who 
do have them as pets usually 
keep   them   in   large,   open 
spaces (such as an aviary) in 
order to allow them to stretch 
their wings and fly. Corellian ban­
shee   birds   are   fast   and   dangerous 
predators but make good compan­
ions,   because   they   are   loyal   to 
those   who   treat   them   well   and 
vicious   against   anyone   they   per­
ceive   as   a   threat   to   them   or   their 
masters. 

 CORELLIAN BANSHEE BIRD 

Type: Avian predator 
DEXTERITY 4D+1 
PERCEPTION 2D 
Search 5D 
STRENGTH 2D+1 
Special Abilities: 
Claws: Do Strength+2 damage 
Low Light Vision:  A banshee bird can see twice as far as a normal 
human in poor lighting conditions. The gamemaster should allow 
Corellian Banshee birds to make the appropriate Perception-based 
skill checks at a lower difficulty than normal human characters.
Wail:  The banshee can emit a loud wail that disorients opponents. 
Nearby targets must make a Difficult  willpower  roll or suffer a 
cumulative −1 penalty to all actions. This is a temporary mind-af­
fecting effect. 
Move: 20 (flying) 
Size: 2 meter wingspan 

CRACIAN THUMPER

The Cracian Thumper is the galaxy’s most widely used land 
mount. Originally a native of all five planets in the Craci System, 
the thumper has been exported to most civilized systems of the 
galaxy. It is used as a versatile mount for military operations by 
the Rebel Alliance, and as a racing mount by residents of more 
urban areas. A Cracian Thumper is bipedal, with powerful hind 
limbs, smaller forelimbs, and a thick tail it uses for balance and 
defense. Thick, long fur covers its body in colder climes, but is 
shed on warmer planets. Racing thumpers are typically shaved 
to reduce weight and to give the creatures a sleeker appearance.
The beast is known for its agility, intelligence, and versatility; 
however, above all else, thumpers are known for their stealth. 
Cracian Thumpers have large feet that cause most observers to 
mistakenly anticipate that the creatures will make loud, thump­
ing sounds as they run. On the contrary, the thumper is excep­
tionally quiet and makes an excellent mount for stealthy land 
operations.

Although   they   are   herbivores,   Cracian   Thumpers   possess 
potent   defenses:   sharply   clawed   front   and   rear   limbs,   and   a 
powerful tail. Thumpers are capable of lashing out with their 
rear claws without breaking stride, or of knocking the heads off 
of unlucky stormtroopers with their muscular tails.

For animals, thumpers are also fairly intelligent. They are eas­
ily trained for a variety of uses and are particularly good at rec­
ognizing   simple   patterns;   for   example,   the   Rebellion   teaches 
their thumpers that humanoid shapes in hard, all-white shells 
are   the   enemy.
  A 
thumper   is   typically 
assigned   one   rider   as   a 
trainer in  order  to  take 
advantage   of   the   crea­
ture’s   naturally   loyal 
disposition.   They   can 
carry up to 110 kilos of 
cargo, or a rider and up 
to 50 kilos.

 CRACIAN THUMPER
Type: Bipedal land mount
DEXTERITY 3D
PERCEPTION 3D+2
Sneak 4D+2
STRENGTH 3D
Special Abilities:
Claws: STR+1 damage
Tail: STR+1D+2,
Silent Movement:  Thumpers can move very silently, adding 1D+2 to 

sneak attempts if they move at high speed or slower.

Move: 12
Size: 1-1.8 meters at the shoulder
Orneriness: 1D

DEWBACK

Dewbacks are large, oxygen-breathing, carbon-based lizard-
like omnivores native to Tatooine. Adults stand between as high 
as two meters at the shoulder. They are active during the warm 

daylight hours and sluggish during the night. Coloration ranges 
from gray and brown through dull  red and blue; camouflage 
patterns are common. Comfortable on the desert world, dew­
backs are often seen digging through dunes in search of scrub, 
small animals (such as womp rats), or moisture.

Dewbacks are solitary animals, but once each year they gath­
er in the Jundland Wastes to mate (they will not breed in cap­
tivity). When the frenzy ends, the females lay clutches of eggs 
by the thousands, then return to their lives as lone wanderers 
until nature calls again. Half a year later, during the womp rat 
migration, the eggs hatch young dewbacks, who must survive 
the dangers of the Wastes without aid from their elders.

Most dewbacks are wild, but some have been domesticated 
and are used as riding beasts. Tatooine’s local authorities use 
them   as   patrol   animals   because   they   are   well-suited   to  high 
temperatures   and   the   blowing   sands   that   can   damage   land­
speeders. Even in the face of severe sand storms, a dewback will 
carry   its   rider   to   his   destination   with   hardly   a   complaint   or 
growl. A dewback is faster and more agile than the plodding 
bantha,   giving   patrols   a   measure   of   superiority   over   Tusken 
Raiders and slow-moving Jawa sandcrawlers.

Sand People hunt dewbacks as a source of food and material. 
The leathery protective hides are used to make boots, belts and 
pouches, as well as tents and other gear. They also serve as a 
substantial part of the krayt dragon’s varied diet. During their 
mating season, many dewbacks fall to claws, razor-sharp teeth 
and blaster bolts.

Dewbacks have no parental or herd instincts, and will fight 
only if threatened. If confronted by violence, their usual instinct 
is to flee, 
or hide if flight is 
impossible. 

 DEWBACK

Type: Desert Lizard
DEXTERITY 3D
PERCEPTION 2D
STRENGTH 4D
Brawling 4D+1
Move: 35; 100 km/h (during day), 7; 20 km/h (at night)
Size: 1.3-2.1 meters tall at shoulder
Orneriness: 3D

DIANOGA

The dianoga is a scavenger originally from the swamp world 
of   Vodran,   where   it   evolved   as   a   marine   scavenger.   Having 
escaped Vodran long ago in the hold of a space freighter, the 
dianoga has spread to colonize many worlds.

The   dianoga,   or   garbage   squid   as   it   is   sometimes   called, 
thrives   in   the  sewers   and  river   canals  of  large  urban   centers 
throughout the galaxy. It feeds on all types of refuse, and can 
consume almost anything except pure metals.

The dianoga possesses a single eyestalk which it can extend 
up out of the water like a periscope and even around corners. It 
has  seven  tentacles  that it uses  for locomotion  and to catch 
food.   These   tentacles   grow   back   rapidly   if   severed.   Naturally

 translucent, the dianoga
turns the color
 of its food It is difficult
to see whether fed
or starving.
Young dianogas
 are a toler-
ated pest on
many worlds
— they consume
vast quantities
of garbage
and therefore
serve a valuable
 function for
cities which gen-
erate tons of refuse
 a day (some space
stations breed dianoga in
their garbage dumps). On
 the other  hand, dianoga grow larger
and more aggressive as they grow older. While
usually shy and peaceful, dianoga can become aggres­
sive if starved or panicked. Especially large specimens 
can threaten humans and other species, and are often 
hunted down and destroyed when discovered.

 DIANOGA

Type: Underwater predator
DEXTERITY 2D
PERCEPTION 3D+1
STRENGTH 6D
Special Abilities:
Camouflage: Can change color to match surroundings (+4D to sneak)
Tentacles: Target must make opposed Strength roll to escape and not 

be dragged along.

Move: 3 (swim)
Size: Up to 3 meters long

DRAGONSNAKE

The dragonsnake is one of the deadliest predators found on 

Dagohah. It is a 
swift but patient 
hunter, lying 
motionless for 
hours, waiting for 
prey to come within 
range. When prey 
approaches, it 
hinges forward in 
the water and either 
engulfs the target 
with its large mouth 
or grabs it with its 
two clawed fore­
limbs and drags it 
underwater.

Although   slow-
moving creatures on 
land,   dragonsnakes 
move with surprising swiftness when they attack in the water. 

They are exceptionally silent swimmers and excel at gliding 
silently  forward   in   the  water   until   they  come  within   striking 
range. Dragonsnakes can swallow whole any Small or smaller 
creatures, but must rend and tear larger prey in order to con­
sume it. They are solitary hunters; each beast claims a single 
lake, hay, or other moderately large body of water as its territo­
ry. Because they must come ashore to lay their eggs, dragon­
snakes always make their lairs fairly close to shore. 

 DRAGONSNAKE

Type: Underwater predator
DEXTERITY 2D
PERCEPTION 2D
STRENGHT 5D
Special Abilities:
Bite: Does Strength+2D damage. If dragonsnake attack roll is double 
a target’s  parry or  swimming  attempt, the  target  is  swallowed 
whole. If swallowed, target  receives  Strength  damage, and  the 
target must inflict non-stun damage to be spit out; stun weapons 
are not effective in this case.

Razor-sharp Fins: Do Strength+3D damage.
Constrictor Coils: if dragonsnake connects with a Moderate brawling 
attack, target is ensnared. Target receives  Strength damage each 
round until free. Target must incapacitate dragonsnake to break 
free.
Move: 5 (swim)
Size: Up to 4 meters long

EOPIE

Of all Tatooine’s indigenous creatures,

eopies are perhaps the
most useful to that
world’s residents,
providing susten-
ance as well as
being extremely
useful as pack
animals and mounts.
And eopies are far more affordable
than banthas or dewbacks. The
eopie’s long snout enables it to
eat the water-sucking weeds that
invariably creep up around
moisture vaporators, much
to the pleasure of moisture
farmers across Tatooine.
Eopies are known for being able to survive for weeks without 
water, as well as for plodding along in the worst sandstorms. The 
eopie’s  noted lack of  panic at  a sudden  threat has  lead to a 
common spacers’ expression: “as steady as an eopie.”

 EOPIE

Type: Transport beast
DEXTERITY 1D+1
PERCEPTION 1D+1
Search 3D
STRENGTH 4D+1
Special Abilities:
Bite: Does STR+2 damage.
Move: 6
Size: 2 meters tall
Orneriness: 2D
Notes:  For every ten years of age, an eopie’s  Orneriness rating drops 

by 1D (minimum 0D).

GUNDARK

Gundarks are a widespread and robust species, known as one 
of the most dangerous creatures in the galaxy. Gundarks have 
four   arms,   broad   hands   and   feet   with   opposable   digits,   ears 
nearly as wide as their heads, and a covering of short hair that 
ranges from brown to gray in color. They can be found the gal­
axy over, but most live in temperate climates. Gundarks are con­
sidered   to   be   semi-sentient   by   most   galactic   authorities.   As 
such,   they   are   protected   from   exploitation,   even   after   the 
Empire’s rise to power. This protection does little to stop black 
market   trade   in   gundarks,   which   is   little   better   than   slavery. 
Because of the gundarks’ reputation as fearless and aggressive 
combatants, they are most often sold to underground gladiato­
rial arenas, or to hunters who see them as the ultimate sport. 
The primitive society of gundarks consists of small matriarchal 
family units. Multiple families sometimes gather together into 
tribes, allowing them to support one another. While the females 
hunt  and  gather  food,  the  males  construct homes  and teach 
young gundarks how to fight. Defense of the home falls to the  
males, and it is a task they excel at.

Fearless: Gundarks gain a +1D bonus to resist Intimidation and Force 

powers that cause fear.

Low Light Vision: A gundark can see twice as far as a normal human 

in poor lighting conditions.

Track by Scent:  Gundarks receive a +3D bonus to search: tracking  if 

scent plays a part.

Weapons: Gundarks often wield weapons, such as clubs, which inflict 

STR+2 damage.

Move: 12
Size: 1 to 2.5 meters tall, 1.5 meters on average.

KATARN

The katarn is a predator native to
the Wookiee homeworld of Kashyyyk.
It is a lizard-like quadruped with a thick
hide and rows of sharp spurs along its
legs. These spurs make katarn excel-
lent tree climbers; they are able to
move at their full speed when
climbing up or down trees The creature
has a narrow, beak-like mouth that is
lined with several rows of teeth.
Though the bite of a katarn is
not particularly fearsome in
combat, it is quite effective when
used to root tree-burrowers from
their arboreal homes. 

Katarns mate every few years,
and females that become pregnant
leave their mates as soon as they
are ready to give birth. The female climbs high into the forest 
canopy in search of a likely spot to deliver her young. Once the 
pups are born, she savagely protects them from predators until 
they are old enough to fend for themselves. 

The katarn is an important part of Wookiee mythology and 
tradition. Wookiees believe that the katarn once hunted them, 
which in turn taught the Wookiees how to resist or escape the 
katarn in order to survive. Over time, the Wookiees became the 
hunters and the katarn the hunted, and things will remain that 
way until such time as their positions are reversed once more. 

 KATARN

Type: Kashyyyk predator
DEXTERITY 3D
Dodge 6D+1
PERCEPTION 4D
Search: hunting 7D, sneak 5D
STRENGTH 4D
Special Abilities:
Teeth: STR+1D
Claws: STR+1D
Horns: STR+1
Move: 15
Size: 0.6-0.8 meters long

K’LOR’SLUG

The k’lor’slug is a venomous swamp creature from the planet 
Noe’ha’on, feared for its innate aggressiveness as well as its keen 
senses of smell and vision. The k’lor’slug is fast, silent and deadly, 
particularly when it is near its nest. The worm-like monsters lay 
eggs   by   the   hundreds,   and   when   hatched,   infant   k’lor’slugs 
spread rapidly, devouring anything resembling food.

The  k’lor’slug  has   pink-hued  skin   that   closely  matches   the 
coloration of the mud-clay found in Noe’ha’on’s swamps (which 
makes the creature devilishly difficult to detect). The slug has a 
long, flexible tail that it can use to attack; the small stinger on 
the end of the tail can administer a neurotoxin that renders the 
victim immobile. Once a target is paralyzed, the k’lor’slug can 
feed at its leisure, tearing its prey apart with its strong, sharp 
pincers.

 

 K’LOR’SLUG

Type: Swamp predator
DEXTERITY 4D
Dodge 5D
PERCEPTION 4D
Sneak 5D
STRENGTH 2D
Special Abilities:
Pincers: Do STR +1D+2 damage
Tail: Does STR +1D damage. If the k’lor’slug makes a Difficult Dexter­
ity roll, the target has been stung and suffers from the effects of 
the creature’s potent neurotoxin. Affected characters must make 
a Difficult stamina or Strength or be rendered immobile. The poi­
son is effective for 1D minutes.

Camouflage: The k’lor’slug receives a +2D to sneak rolls when hidden 

in the pink clay of Noe’ha’on’s swamps.

Move: 10
Size: 2−3 meters long

KNOBBY SPIDER

The knobby white spider is a large predatory arachnid native 
to the swamps of Dagobah. In addition to living amid the pil­
lar-like roots of the planet’s  enormous gnarltrees, it is also a 
part of the gnarltree’s bizarre life cycle. To reproduce, gnarltrees 
occasionally extrude mobile roots that drop off the tree when 
they are no larger than an astromech droid. These roots immedi­
ately begin hunting live prey so they can grow. When this “spi­
der” reaches maturity, it locates a clear area and takes root. It 
shoves   its   eight   legs   deep   into   the   ground,   and   these   legs 
become the first of the new gnarltree’s roots. The transforma­
tion from spider to tree is swift; within three months after root­
ing, the creature’s skin has sufficiently darkened and thickened 
that   it   has   become   indistinguishable   from   any   other   young 
gnarltree. Unlike most other animals, knobby white spiders have 
complete radial symmetry. They have a stinger near the end of 
each leg capable of delivering their poison and a ring of eight 
eyes  underneath  their  eight  legs,  allowing  them to see in  all 
directions at once. 

 KNOBBY SPIDER

Type: Large predatory arachnid/mobile plant
DEXTERITY 4D
PERCEPTION 2D+1
STRENGTH 6D
Special Abilities:
Bite: Does STR+1D damage.
Eight Legs: Due to their number of limbs, knobby spiders can perform 
two actions per round with no penalty; a third action in a round 
receives a −1D penalty, a fourth action in a round receives a −2D 
penalty and so forth.

Move: 11
Size: Up to 4 meters tall

KRAYT DRAGON

The terrible krayt dragon of Tatooine is a large carnivorous 
reptile   that   dwells   in   the   mountains   and   dunes   surrounding 
Tatooine’s Jundland Wastes in the evening.

Krayt dragons subsist primarily on rontos, banthas, dewbacks, 
and slow Sand People. They swat prey with their large claws, and 
then strike the stunned victim with their powerful jaws.

Because of the krayt dragon’s ferocity, a 

of rumors and myths are associated with the fearsome creature. 
One such rumor concerns “dragon pearls,” valuable stones that 
can be found in the dragon’s innards. While the krayt dragon 
has massive claws and teeth, it uses them only to rip and tear its 
prey;   the   creature   possesses   no   teeth   suitable   for   chewing. 
Instead,   krayt   dragons   possess   “gizzards”   (quite   like   those   of 
birds) which mash food into digestible form. In order to grind 
the food, the krayt dragon ingests small rocks and stones, which 
act as “teeth” inside the gizzard. However, the intense pressure 
of the krayt dragon’s digestive system polishes and tempers the 
stones into valuable gems (known as “dragon pearls”). Unfortu­
nately, the only way to obtain dragon pearls is to kill a krayt 
dragon — no easy feat.

 KRAYT DRAGON
Type: Large carnivore
DEXTERITY 3D
PERCEPTION 1D+2
STRENGTH 12D
Special Abilities:
Claws: 8D damage
Teeth: 15D damage
Motion   Tracking:  The   Krayt   dragon   tracks   its   prey   by   detecting 
motion. The dragon receives +1D to Perception to detect targets 
that   are   moving.   Characters   that   make   a   successful   Difficult 
sneak roll can stand still enough to fool the Krayt dragon.

Move: 15
Size: 10 meters tall, 15-30 meters long

MASSIFF

Massiffs are bulky, 
well-armored preda­
tors originally from 
Geonosis and now 
found on several 
worlds. They are most 
common on Geonosis 
and Tatooine. Mas­
siffs were domesti­
cated thousands of years ago by the Geonosians, who use them 
as sentries and guard beasts. Because of their usefulness, the 
crews of some Geonosian ships carried them to guard their ves­
sels and sold others to off-worlders. Standing a meter high at 
the shoulder, these animals make fearsome guards, and their 
keen senses allow them to easily notice the approach of any 
intruders. Massiffs are voracious eaters capable of wrestling 
down large, slow-moving prey. However, their wild diet consists 
mostly of various types of small vermin as well as carrion and 
any smaller carrion-eaters who fail to flee when massiffs arrive 
at a carcass. 

 MASSIFF

Type: Armored predator
DEXTERITY 3D
Running 3D+2
PERCEPTION 2D+2
Hide 3D+2, search 3D+1, search: tracking 4D, sneak 3D+2
STRENGTH 3D+1
Climbing/jumping 5D+1
Special Abilities:
Bite: Does STR+2 damage.
Resistant to Radiation:  Massiff gain a +1D bonus to  Strength  when 

resisting the effects of harmful radiation.

Track by Scent: Massiff can track by scent, and gain a +1D bonus to 

their search: tracking skill when doing so.

Move: 10
Size: 2 meters long

MYNOCK

Mynocks are one of 

the few species of
space-dwelling life
believed to have evolved
in vacuum. They can-
not survive for more
than a few minutes
inside any sort of atmo-
sphere. A mynock has a 
wingspan of a little over a 
meter. If attacked, it defends 
itself by hitting opponents 
with its exceedingly tough wings. These 
silicon-based based life forms originated in 
the rings of the planet Ord Mynock. Today, 
they are found throughout the galaxy. Their 
magnetically   charged   wings   allow   them   to   catch   the   stellar 
winds and literally fly through space. They live in asteroid fields 
and  planetary  rings   and  make   their   nests   on   small   asteroids. 
Mynocks normally subsist on a mixture of stellar radiation and 
the   charged   particle   fluxes   put   out   by   stars,   but   are   often 
attracted to richer energy sources, such as the power plants of  

passing starships. They are regarded as dangerous pests by all 
star-travelers;   ships   that   approach   airless   worlds   are   often 
inspected for mynock infestations, and those that have attract­
ed any of the creatures are usually quarantined. 

 MYNOCK
Type: Parasite
DEXTERITY 3D
PERCEPTION 1D
STRENGTH 1D
Special Abilities:
Energy Drain: survive by draining energy from starships.
Flight: Mynocks who drain enough energy can fly. Silicon life forms: 
silicon-based life forms and can survive in the vacuum of space.

Move: 9, 1 (space units per turn)
Size: 1.5 meters wide, 0.5 meters tall

NEXU

Native to the jungles of Indona and Cholganna, the nexu is a 
fierce, stealthy predator with little fear of larger opponents, or 
even the weapons of sentient beings. Hunted for sport on their 
native   planet,   nexu   often   turn   the   tables   on   their   would-be 
hunters and slash them to ribbons before they can fire a shot.

 NEXU

Type: Stalking predator
DEXTERITY 4D+2
PERCEPTION 3D
Hide 4D+1, search 5D, sneak 4D+1
STRENGTH 4D+1
Climbing/jumping 6D+1
Special Abilities:
Bite: Does STR+2 damage.
Claws: Do STR+1 damage.
Exceptional Reflexes:  Nexu gain a +1D bonus to all  Perception  rolls 

made to determine initiative.

Keen Hearing: Nexu have excellent hearing, and gain a +1D bonus to 

all search rolls that involve sound.

Move: 16
Size: 2 meters long (medium)

RANCOR

Rancors are one of the largest land predators that can survive 
in human environments. The exact location of the rancor’s home 
planet  is largely unknown; at the time of the Rebellion, only 
Jabba has managed to keep a rancor in captivity. Some believe 
that the rancor was a unique creature, possibly genetically engi­
neered to sate the Hutt crimelord’s  vile appetites. (Of course, 
those few who have visited Dathomir know otherwise.)

The rancor is bipedal, with  dripping fangs and long, sharp 
claws. The thick hide of the rancor makes it highly resistant to 
blasters and most other hand-held energy weapons, and melee 
weapons do not fare much better.

 RANCOR

Type: Gigantic predator
DEXTERITY 4D
PERCEPTION 1D
Search: tracking 3D
STRENGTH 7D
Special Abilities:
Armor: +3D protection
against physical and
energy attacks

Claws: STR+3D damage
Teeth: STR+5D damage
Move: 20
Size: 5 meters tall

REEK

Reeks wander the plains of Ylesia in great herds, contentedly 
munching   on   grass   and   lichens.   Although   immensely   strong, 
they generally reserve their violent behavior for the mating sea­
son, when the sound of two bull reeks fighting 
for   dominance   rumbles   like   thunder 
across the plains.

When a reek attacks, it 

lowers its head, charges, 
and attempts to gore with 
its large horn. Should the 
initial attack miss, the 
reek flails its head 
about blindly, hop­
ing to chase 
away its prey so 
that it can 
attempt another charge.

 REEK

Type: Herbivorous herd animal
DEXTERITY 1D+1
PERCEPTION 1D
Hide 2D, search 2D+1
STRENGTH 6D
Special Abilities:
Enraged:  When   enraged,   a   reek   gains   +1D   to   all  Perception  rolls 

made to determine initiative.

Gore Attack: Can gore with its horn for STR+1D damage.
Thick   Skin:  Due   to   a   reek’s   thick   hide,   it   gains   a   +2D   bonus   to 
Strength rolls when resisting physical damage, and +1D bonus to 
Strength rolls when resisting energy damage.

Move: 10
Size: 6 meters long

RONTO

The huge but gentle pack animals called rontos are favorites 
of the Jawas of Tatooine. Known for their loyalty and strength, 
they can carry immense burdens and are large enough to fright­
en off attackers such as Tusken Raiders. However, they are also 
very skittish creatures, and are easily startled by urban traffic. 
Most owners of rontos keep them well away from Mos Eisley’s 
bustling streets.

Rontos have an excellent sense of smell — they can detect a 
krayt   dragon   coming   a   kilometer   away.   Unfortunately,   their 
vision is quite poor. While rontos need plenty of water, their skin 
easily sheds excess heat, making them well-suited to Tatooine’s 
harsh desert environment. 

 RONTO

Type: Pack beast of burden
DEXTERITY 2D
Running 3D
PERCEPTION 3D
STRENGTH 5D
Stamina 6D
Special Abilities:
Heat endurance: Rontos are extremely

adaptable to desert conditions, though
they still need water to survive.
Sense of smell: Rontos have a keen
sense of smell. They add +1D to
any Perception roll involving
smell.

Skittish: Rontos are easily upset by
any machines that move signif-
icantly faster than they. Add +3D
to their orneriness when around
fast-moving vehicles.

Move: 10
Size: 4.25 meters tall
Orneriness: 1D

SARLACC

In   addition   to  its   burning   temperatures,  biting   sandstorms 
and   bantha-swallowing   dunes,   there   are   several   indigenous 
creatures  which   make   the  dread  Dune   Sea   the  most   perilous 
place on the face of Tatooine. Most feared among these crea­
tures is the great Sarlacc. 

Resting at the bottom of the infamous Pit of Carkoon, the 
Sarlacc is a massive, omnivorous creature. From the mouth of its 
pit, it appears as a great hooked beak, surrounded by dozens of 
grasping tentacles. This is only the mouth of the creature — the 
enormous body of the Sarlacc is buried deep beneath the sand. 

The Sarlacc uses its tentacles to grab prey from the surface 
and drag it down to its beak. These tentacles have been known 
to reach a full four meters beyond the Pit, snagging those who 
thought they were completely safe. However, the Sarlacc seldom 
needs to go to such trouble — the Pit of Carkoon supplies most 
of its prey. The highly unstable and shifting slopes of the Pit 
send  anyone   unlucky  enough   to  step   in   tumbling  to  a  grisly 
death below.

Immobile,   living   in   the   center   of   the   parched   and   barren 
Dune   Sea,   the   Sarlacc   does   not   feed   often.   Fortunately,   it 
doesn’t need to. Its highly efficient digestive system preserves 
food for incredibly long periods of time, digesting it slowly, and  
storing it until needed for sustenance. The victim remains alive 
for much of this time. 

 SARLACC

 SPACE SLUG

Type: Solitary stationary carnivore
DEXTERITY 2D
PERCEPTION 1D
STRENGTH 6D
Special Abilities:
Tentacles: have a Strength of 6D, reach up to four meters outside pit; 
do   not   cause   damage,   but   victims   must   make   a   successful 
opposed Strength roll to escape.

Bite: 5D damage.
Acid digestion:  Any creature dragged into the sarlacc’s maw suffers 
5D damage from digestive acid until the victim is knocked uncon­
scious and dragged into the sarlacc’s digestive tract — at that 
point, the victim normally wakes up, but by then it is normally 
incapacitated by the sarlacc’s paralyzing digestive enzymes, 7D 
stun damage.

Move: 2
Size: 2.5-3 meters across (mouth), 100 meters long (underground)

SPACE SLUG

Space slugs are toothed, worm-like, silicon-based lifeforms. 
They survive in the harsh environment of space by feeding on 
stellar   energy   emissions,   though   they   also   feed   on   minerals 
found in asteroids. Larger slugs also dine on mynocks who are 
drawn to their energy, though the small creatures are as likely to 
become parasites within their bodies as be digested.

Most slugs measure less than 10 meters, though specimens 
many times larger have been recorded. Slugs large enough to 
swallow small ships whole, though extremely rare, do exist. Most 
spacers discount them as tall tales, however.

Space slugs are found primarily in asteroid fields where food 
is plentiful. They can travel between asteroids by pushing off 
one and gliding to another. Space slugs have a highly developed 
spacial sense which allows them to calculate the trajectory and 
speed of every moving body in their immediate area. This sense 
helps them target other asteroids — and also food sources such 
as mynocks, small asteroids — and the occasional small ship.

Space slugs  are highly prized for their  various  organs  and 
body parts, which can be used in a wide variety of industrial 
applications. Some systems keep a few small slugs on hand to 
keep the mynock population under control 

Type: Vacuum Predator
DEXTERITY 2D
PERCEPTION 1D
STRENGTH 6D (creature scale) /5D (starfighter scale)*
* For a 6-meter-long and 900-meter-long slug respectively; Strength 
varies dramatically by the length of the slug; extremely large slugs  
are in the starfighter or capital class.

Special Abilities:
Vacuum: Space slugs are native to the vacuum of space and can sur­

vive in this environment with no assistance.

Teeth: Do STR+1D damage.
Move: 6 (creature-scale slugs only).
Size: May be as small as 1 meter long, possibly up to 900 meters long.

TAUNTAUN

Natives of the ice planet Hoth, tauntauns were used as riding 
beasts by Rebel forces on the frigid world. Tauntauns were easily 
tamed, though they remained somewhat skittish. 

Tauntauns stand roughly two meters tall, 
and   are   extremely   warm-blooded   (to 
allow them to survive Hoth’s deadly cold). 
Tauntauns possess a muscular tail roughly 
one   meter   long,   which   helps   the   creature 
maintain its balance on Hoth’s icy surface. 
Tauntauns   have   three-clawed   feet 
and   curved   horns   on   the   sides   of 
their heads that they use in com­

bat.

 TAUNTAUN

Type: Arctic climate omni­

vore
DEXTERITY 2D
PERCEPTION 3D

STRENGTH 4D

Special Abilities:

Charge attack: Does STR+1D+1 damage.
Arctic creature: Tauntauns can withstand frigid temperatures that are 
deadly  to   most   other  creatures   (although  their  stamina  in   the 
cold is not unlimited)

Move: 16
Size: Adults stand 1.3-2 meters at the shoulder
Orneriness: 1D

UKIAN TORBULL

The planet Ukio, a prominent agricultural world, is home to 
the “Ukian torbull.”  The torbull  was originally an  experiment; 
the Ukians hoped to breed a hardy pack beast that could adapt 
to virtually any environment (which could in turn be sold to vir­
tually every planet in the galaxy). The experiment was only a  
partial success — the torbull is nearly as adaptable as the ban­
tha, and is in fact capable of functioning in environments that 
the bantha can not.

While the torbull is a versatile and easy-to-tame creature, it 
does have one major disadvantage: its appetite. Where a bantha 
can go for weeks without food or water, the torbull requires 
massive amounts of sustenance. Because of its ravenous nature, 
the torbull is not a popular pack beast (simply because of the 
expense of hauling around vast food stores to sustain the crea ­
ture).

The torbull is a large, hairless quadruped, and possesses huge 
teeth and eyes that appear to flash with anger. The creature has 
a very thick, tough hide that has a rough, peb-

what

bly texture.
Despite its some­
fearsome 
appearance,   the   tor­
bull   is   exceptionally 
docile   and   —   as 
long   as   it   is 
properly   fed   — 
extremely friend­
ly.   The   torbull’s 
main   advantage 
over   the   bantha   is   its 
ability to operate in extremely moist regions. Despite its massive 
bulk, the creature is surprisingly buoyant and can swim with rel­
ative ease. In addition, the torbull is considerably faster than a 
bantha, though it is not as strong.

 UKIAN TORBULL
Type: Docile pack beast
DEXTERITY 2D
Dodge 3D
PERCEPTION 2D
STRENGTH 4D
Special Abilities:
Tough hide: The torbull’s tough hide provides +1D protection against 

physical attacks.

Tame: The torbull does not have an aggressive nature; when ridden, 

the rider receives a +1D bonus to beast riding.

Appetite: The torbull must be fed and watered at least four times per 
standard day; a minimum of 20 liters of water and 10 kilograms  
of grain (or other foodstuff) are required to sustain the torbull. 
Constant grazing is usually effective, though when operating in 
desert conditions ample foodstuffs must be carried. The  orneri­
ness code of a torbull that has missed a feeding increases by 3D. 
A torbull that misses more than two consecutive feedings dies of 
hunger.

Move: 10, 15 (swimming)
Size: 2 meters at the shoulder; 5 meters long
Orneriness: 1D

VARACTYL

Varactyls are a large saurian species native to the planet Uta­
pau. They are lizard-like in appearance, with green scales that 
thicken into armored plates on 
the varactyl’s head. Quills, some 
of which 

resemble feathers, sprout in a ridge that runs from the creature’s 
head to the tip of its tail. The plumage of the female of the  
species tends to be more vibrant than that of the male.

As   cold-blooded   animals,   varactyls   are   more   active   during 
daylight hours. They spend much of the day sunning themselves 
as they cling to the walls of Utapau’s sinkholes. They are 
excellent climbers and can travel across vertical surfaces with 
incredible speed and agility. When they aren’t warming them­
selves, they hunt for lichens and roots to eat. At night, varactyls 
retreat into burrows that they create in sinkhole walls They do 
so to avoid the dactillion, a birdlike predator that is also native 
to Utapau.

Although they are native to Utapau, varactyls have also been 
encountered   on   a   handful   of   other   worlds.   For   instance, 
Kashyyyk maintains a small population of the creatures, though 
the details of how they came to the Wookiee homeworld are 
somewhat mysterious. It is assumed that one or more varactyl 
eggs ended up on Kashyyyk in the possession of a smuggler, but 
this has yet to be proven beyond a reasonable doubt. 

 VARACTYL

Type: Riding lizard 
DEXTERITY 4D+2 
Running 5D 
PERCEPTION 1D+2 
Search 3D, sneak 4D 
STRENGTH 7D 
Climbing/jumping 8D, swimming 7D+2 
Special Abilities: 
Cold-Blooded: During nighttime, varactyls suffer a −2D penalty to all 

actions. 

Spined Tail: Females have a fan of rigid spines along its tail that deal 

STR+2 damage. 

Claws: Provide +1D to climbing. 
Move: 40 
Size: 15 meters long 
Orneriness: 2D+2 

VORNSKR

Native   to   the   planet 
Myrkr,   the   vornskr   is   a 
dog-like   predator   with 
an   innate   sensitivity   to 
the   Force   and   Force-
  These   furred 
users.
quadrupeds   have   long 
legs   tipped   in   sharp 
claws,   powerful   jaws 
filled with deadly fangs, 
and long, whip-like tails 
tipped   with   poisonous 
spines. They are aggres­
sive, fast, and incredibly 
strong for their size Vornskrs are nocturnal, hunting after dark 
in packs consisting of between three and five individuals. One of 
the vornskr’s primary prey animals is the ysalamiri, a lizard-like 
creature that is also native to Myrkr. Ysalamiri project a bubble-
shaped field that nullifies the use of Force powers, which makes 
it difficult for vornskrs to locate them. Vornskrs sometimes mis­
take   a   Force-user   for   a   group   of   ysalamiri,   leading   them   to 
attack. The presence of Force-users enrages vornskrs, a behavior 
that no amount of training can eliminate. 

 

 VORNSKR

Type: Force-sensitive predator
DEXTERITY 4D
PERCEPTION 2D+2
Sneak 5D
STRENGTH 3D+2
Special Abilities:
Teeth: STR+2D damage
Sense Force: Vornskrs can detect Force-users. They are considered to 
have 3D in this ability. Upon sensing a Force-user, they become 
very agitated and aggressive: they confuse all Force-users with 
the ysalamiri. A Force-user within 10 meters can be detected and 
tracked by a vornskr with a Very Easy roll; 11-25 meters is an easy 
roll; 26-50 meters requires a moderate roll; and 51-100 meters 
requires a Difficult roll. Over 100 meters is a Heroic difficulty.

Move: 15
Size: 0.8 meters tall at the shoulder, up to 1.6 meters long(including 

tail)

WAMPA

Wampas are fearsome beasts 
that inhabit the icy planet Hoth. 
Wampas stand roughly three meters 
high and possess razor-sharp claws 
and fangs. Older wampas possess 
horns (which grow longer with 
age). Because of their thick white 
fur, wampas are almost impossible 
to spot amidst the blowing snow 
of Hoth.

Wampas live in ice caves, and tend 

to be solitary hunters, exhibiting a 
frightening amount of cunning and 
intelligence for what are ostensibly non-sentient creatures.

 WAMPA ICE CREATURE

Type: Snow predator
DEXTERITY 3D
PERCEPTION 4D
Search; tracking arctic 6D, sneak: arctic 7D
STRENGTH 7D
Special Abilities:
Claws: STR+1 damage
Teeth: STR+2 damage
Camouflage:  +3D   to  sneak  in   arctic   climates,  heat-diffusing   body 

adds +2D to sneak versus sensors

Howling:  Wampa howls are a rudimentary form of communication 
that allows wampas to coordinate attacks; these howls are virtu­
ally indistinguishable from the sound of Hoth’s winds.

Move: 13
Size: 3 meters tall

WOMP RAT

Womp   rats   are   large   rodents   native   to   the   deserts   of 
Tatooine. They breed in sizable colonies and are both scavengers 
and hunters. Individual womp rats subsist by eating carrion or 
hunting small animals, often including wandering pets and, on 
rare occasions, small children. Groups of womp rats sometimes 
work together to bring down larger prey, including young ban­
thas,  as   well   as  lone  Jawas,  Sand People,  or  other  intelligent 
beings who find themselves poorly armed and alone. However, 
they   are   not   especially   dangerous   except   when   hunting   in 
groups, and their tactics consist largely of attacking a single tar­
get at once. If there are sufficient numbers of womp rats, they 
are often willing to attack Medium or Large targets. Although 

never acclaimed for their 
bravery,   womp   rats   are 
often renowned for both 
their endurance and their 
determination.   They   are 
perfectly adapted for life 
in   the   deep   desert   and 
can   go  for  days   without 
either food or water. 

 WOMP RAT

Type: Large rodents
DEXTERITY 2D
PERCEPTION 1D+1
STRENGTH 2D+1
Special Abilities:
Claws: 2D+2 damage
Teeth: 3D+1 damage
Pack Combat: These vicious Tatooine natives attack in packs of up to 
five.  The   hairy  carnivores   usually  circle   once,  then  lunge.  They 
scatter when a total of three wounds has been inflicted on the 
pack   as   a   whole   or   an   incapacitated   result   has   been  inflicted 
upon any single individual.

Move: 5
Size: 2.1, meters long

YSALAMIRI

Ysalamiri   are   tiny   creatures 
native to the planet Myrkr. They 
grow   to   be   up   to   half   a   meter 
long,   are   covered   in   fur,   and 
superficially resemble snakes with 
legs. The typical ysalamiri spends 
most   of   its   life   in   a   motionless 
state, attached by its claws to the 
metal-rich trees that form its pri­
mary habitat. They   are difficult 
to   remove   from   the   trees   once 
they   have   attached   themselves, 
and they will die 1-4 days after 
being removed.

The most interesting aspect of the ysalamiri is its ability to  
push back or repel  the Force in  a spherical  area  centered on 
itself.  It   has  been  hypothesized  that   this  ability evolved  as  a 
defense mechanism against the ysalamiri’s primary prey animal 
on Myrkr, the vornskr. Since vornskrs depend on Force powers in 
order to locate and bring down prey, the ysalamiri’s ability to 
push back the Force makes the small creatures much harder for 
these predators to locate. 

 YSALAMIRI

Type: Force-repelling creature
DEXTERITY +2
PERCEPTION 1D+1
STRENGTH +2
Special Abilities:
Force Repulsion:  Ysalamiri can create “bubbles” in which the Force 
cannot be manipulated. A single ysalamiri can form a defensive 
bubble up to 10 meters in radius. Within the bubble, characters 
cannot   use   the   Force   skills,   Force   Points,   or   Character   Points. 
Force attacks directed at ysalamiri fade away as they enter the 
creature’s “Force bubble.”

Move: 0
Size: Up to 50 centimeters long

DESIGNING CREATURES

Many gamemasters will doubtless want to create their own 
monsters and animals for use in a  Star Wars  game. Given the 
vast   amount   of   habitable   planets   in   the  Star   Wars  galaxy, 
gamemasters should feel free to populate their campaign envi­
ronment with as many colorful, exotic animals as they wish.

When devising creatures, the gamemaster must start with a 
creature that is to be used in the adventure. Often, a gamemas­
ter will only have to create one or two creatures for a given 
adventure and not really worry about the larger ecosystem that 
it fits into. The gamemaster should assign die codes that he feels 
are appropriate to the creature in light of its environment and 
role in the planetary ecosphere. Because some worlds are more 
hostile than others, and there are countless niches that can be 
selected, the gamemaster’s decision regarding die codes can be 
fairly arbitrary.

All   creatures   need  Dexterity,  Perception  and  Strength  die 
codes. If the creature can be ridden, an Orneriness Code should 
be assigned to the creature (riders roll their  beast riding  skill 
against the code). The gamemaster might also elect to give the 
creatures extra skill dice in areas like  brawling  parry,  brawling, 
search, sneak or other skills relevant to the survival of the crea­
ture.

ADAPTATIONS

The gamemaster may also choose one of several adaptations 
that creatures have evolved. This should be done with careful 
consideration for the ecosystem that the creature is to inhabit. 
This is only a partial list of possible factors, presented in terms 
of   suggestions   rather   than   specific   mechanics,   enabling   the 
gamemaster to devise creatures to fit the specific needs of the 
adventure.

• Sense: The creature has highly developed senses such as sight, 
smell, hearing, taste and touch (which can detect ground vibra­
tions). The senses can be used to detect predators coming after 
the creature, or be used to aid it in hunting. The creature should 
receive bonus to  Perception  under specific conditions or with 
the specific sense.

• Speed: The creature has great speed compared to other crea­
tures   in   the   ecosphere.   The   creature   might   have   great 
endurance, and be capable of sustaining the speed for a long 
time, or might only be able to move at this high speed in short 
bursts. This ability is reflected by a high Move score relative to 
other creatures in the area.

• Claws: The creature has claws, talons or other hard and sharp 
weapons   on   the   end   of   its   paws   or   other   appendages.   This 
should be reflected as a separate die code for damage, normally 
higher than the creature’s Strength.

•   Armor:  The   creature   has   armor   that   can   absorb   physical 
and/or energy attacks. The armor might be in the form of hard­
ened skin, a hard exoskeleton, a reflective skin that helps deflect  
energy bolts, a flexible body structure that can absorb shocks 
with minimal damage, or some other unusual way of absorbing 
damage without inflicting injury. The armor adds extra die codes 
to the creature’s ability to resist damage without adding to its 
raw Strength.

• Camouflage: The creature is colored so that it can blend into 
the surroundings of its natural environment. The creature might 
also have learned behaviors so that when it is trying to hide it is 
even tougher to spot than when it is going about its natural 
activities. Some creatures blend into the surroundings through 
their permanent coloration, others have coloration that changes 
with seasons, and still others can change color within a few sec­
onds or minutes. Creatures with this ability receive extra dice to 
their sneak skill.

• Poison:  The creature produces venom that helps kill prey or 
helps to protect the creature from hunters and predators. The 
poison   may   he   delivered   through   a   bite,   claws,   quills,   or   a 
stinger. The poison may also be on the outer surface of the crea­
ture (secreted by glands, or in the skin and fur of the creature)  
so that when a predator attempts to bite or eat the creature it  
receives  the poison. The effects  of the poison can vary, from 
mild illness, to nausea, to a potent neural toxin that can kill.

• Odors:  Some creatures produce offensive odors as a defense 
mechanism to scare away predators. The odor is normally strong 
enough to overpower the senses of the predator, allowing the 
odor-producing  creature to  escape.  Another  adaptation  is   for 
the creature to produce an odor so strong that it masks the trail 
of the creature, so hunters cannot track the creature. Another 
common adaptation is for the creature to produce enzymes and 
scents so that it “tastes bad” to any creature that attempts to 
eat it — while an individual of the species will die, predators will 
learn to leave the species as a whole alone. With such attacks, 
victimized creatures may have to make willpower rolls to be able 
to act against the odor-producing animal, or make more diffi­
cult search totals to track and follow the animal.

• Quills: Some creatures have sharp or barbed quills on the out­
er surfaces of their bodies. The quills may hook themselves into 
another creature when it attacks the quill-bearing animal, or in 
rare cases, the creature may be able to hurl the quills for ranged 
attacks. Aside from the base damage, the quills may continue to 
produce damage is they aren’t removed from the victim, or even 
be coated with poison. Some creatures might have “quill sacs” 
inside their mouths, so that they could “spit” the quills at dis­
tances as well. Normally the creature should have a skill relevant 
to throwing the quills, and the quills should have a base damage 
value.

•   Reproduction:  The  creatures   can  reproduce  rapidly,  so  that 
they   survive   not   due   to   the   strength   of   an   individual,   but 
through strength of numbers. The creatures may produce great 
numbers of young, or mate several times in a season, producing 
many more litters than other types of creatures. This is a com­
mon   tactic   for   herbivores,   since   they   tend   to   lack   effective 
attacks and defenses against predators.

• Large Communities: Some animals are helpless in small num­
bers, but when in large groups, they are excellent survivors. In 
large groups, the creatures might have excellent combat tactics, 
or   as   with   many   herd   members,   when   predators   attack   one 
member of a herd, the rest of the herd flees, assuring the con­
tinued survival of the species.

• Homes:  Some creatures build complex and confusing home 
areas, such as underground burrows or warrens, tree cities, or 
aquatic   structures.   In   this   case,   when   predators   attack,   they

often   get   confused   in   the   natural 
maze of the home, while the creature 
flees, retreats to a defensible location, 
or   readies   an   attack   on   the   invader. 
Such types of homes are excellent to 
protect helpless young.

•  Energy  Projection:  Some creatures 
may be able to absorb or produce cer­
tain   types   of   energy,   such   as   heat, 
light, sound or radiation. These can be 
used as an attack form, causing dam­
age   to   attackers   or   targets.   The 
gamemaster   simply   needs   to   deter­
mine the ranges (if any) and damage 
of   such   attack   forms.   The   creature 
may   need   a   recuperation   period 
between   uses,   so   that   it   might   be 
helpless or unable to use the defense 
more than once in a certain span of 
time.

• Migratory: The creatures migrate great distances to seek food, 
avoid   devastating   climate   changes,   or   even   have   a   pre-pro­
grammed urge to return to traditional mating or young rearing 
areas.

• Hibernation: During times of limited food or dangerous natu­
ral conditions, such as seasonal extremes, creatures may be able 
to go into hibernation. During these times, the creature can sur­
vive on very limited air and gets all of its energy from stored 
layers of fat. Hibernation periods may last a few days, weeks, 
months, or even years, depending upon the nature of the planet 
and the metabolism of the creature.

• Blubber:  Many creatures store excess energy as fat, able to 
break the fat back down into energy when food is scarce, or the 
creature can’t take the time to hunt, such as in migrations. Like­
wise the creature may also have the ability to store water or 
other vital fluids, so that it can go a long time without stopping  
to drink, or can survive temperature extremes in relative com­
fort.

• Play Dead: A very bizarre form of natural defense; when con­
fronted by a more powerful predator, the creature pretends to 
be dead in the hopes that the predator will pass it by. This tactic 
works best against creatures that eat only live prey.

•   Non-Essential   Parts:  The creature can  shed  portions  of  its 
body when attacked. Often, the tail is one such appendage: the 
attacker is often content to let the creature scamper to safety  
because it can at least make a meal out of its tail.

• Digging: The creature digs quickly, so that it can build under­
ground structures or can travel underground in relative secrecy. 
Some creatures tunnel under potential prey, and then burst from 
the   ground,   attacking   and   killing   the   target   before   it   has   a 
chance   to   react.   To   determine   game   effects,   simply   give   the 
creature a Move for tunneling.

• Flying: The creature can fly or glide in atmospheres. The most 
common ways of doing this are through wings or air bladders. 
Most creatures can climb, dive and maneuver at will, but some 
creatures are helpless in the air, and thus glide along air cur­
rents. Many flying creatures can make nests and homes in iso­
lated   locations   where   ground-based   predators   cannot   reach 
them. Assign a flight speed to the creature.

•   Amphibious:  The   creature   can 
survive, and probably hunt as well, 
on   land   and   in   water,   possibly 
breathing both water and air.

• Leaper: The creature can jump or 
leap   great   distances.   This   can   be 
used   for   high   speed   movement 
across the surface of a world, or the 
creature may use this ability to leap 
from trees in movement or during 
an   attack.   This   type   of   movement 
can also conceivably hide the trail 
of a creature, so there is no contin­
uous contact with a surface to hold 
scent.

• Confuse Senses: The creature has 
the ability to mask its presence by 
other than visual means. The crea­
ture can disperse its heat so that it 
doesn’t stand out to infrared vision, 
can make sounds like other creatures or has some other ability 
so that it isn’t easily detected or is mistaken for some other type 
of creature. Creatures with this ability often also have camou­
flage.

• Dexterity: The creature is extremely dexterous, and talented at 
dodging attacks using the brawling parry and dodge skills. The 
creature does this by jumping, moving quickly and making other 
feints that make it difficult to catch or hit in combat.

• Tail: The creature has a tail, which can be used to aid in bal­
ance, or to cause damage in combat.

• Antlers/horns/tusks: The creature has antlers, horns or tusks 
which   aid   it   in   combat,   doing   more   damage   than   a   simple 
Strength attack.

• Communication:  The creature has an unusual form of com­
munication, including echo-location, using feet to make sounds 
on the ground, communication by releasing scents, or by touch­
ing. The complexity, range and reliability of the communication 
varies by creature.

• Cold-Blooded:  The creature is cold-blooded, and thus is very 
susceptible  to  temperature changes.  When  it gets   too hot  or 
cold, the creature may become lethargic or be unable to hunt or 
move; severe extremes may kill the creature. The advantage of 
this   adaptation   is   that,  in   general,  the   creature   needs   to  eat 
much less food than similarly sized warm-blooded creatures.

• Independent Young: Young are fully capable of taking care of 
themselves from birth — they can find food, defend themselves, 
and are in no way dependent upon the parent for care or nur­
turing.

After the gamemaster has devised a base creature, he should 
determine   the   creature’s   social   habits   and   behaviors.   Are   the 
creatures solitary, or do they hunt in packs? Do they try to sur­
round opponents, or simply charge when prey is spotted? Are 
they stealthy enough to sneak up on opponents without being 
spotted? Often, a creature with mediocre abilities can become a 
devastating foe if it is cunning enough to confuse and surprise 
prey.

CHAPTER EIGHTEEN

18 EQUIPMENT

& WEAPONS

I’ve been training Imperial soldiers to survive in  
the   field   for   longer   than   I   care   to   remember,   and  
today it’s your turn.

Technology is something you can use... but it can  

use you.

There   are   plenty   of  
tools that can save your  
life   when   properly   applied,  
but   over-reliance   on   such   items  
leads   to   laziness   and   foolish   mistakes.  
Unfortunately,   too   many   soldiers   have  
learned   that   lesson   to   their   cost.   Hopefully  
the following briefing will help you understand  
just how useful — and how limited — technolo­
gy can be. Remember, the right gear can help  
you in a pinch, but your best bet is to rely on your­
self.

There   are   millions   of   items   of   high   technology  
commercially available throughout the Known Gal­
axy. In the Empire, we often have the option to be  
choosy, however, you will probably have to take  
what you can get.

Most   items   can   be   procured   through   legal  
channels when needed, but if you are looking for  
something a little more sophisticated, you may  
have   to   sneak   up   a   few   back   alleys.   Just  
remember: make the machine do what you need  
it to do... if you can’t handle it — and handle it  
well — you can land yourself in real trouble.

ITEM AVAILABILITY

Item   availability   is   a   general   indication   of   how   easily   the 
equipment can be found. These codes are general guidelines and 
local factors may affect an item’s availability.

1 Readily available throughout the known galaxy.

2 Normally available only in large cities and space ports, or 

on the item’s planet of origin.

3 Specialized item, normally only available on item’s plan­

et of origin.

4 Rare item, difficult to obtain anywhere.

ITEM RESTRICTION

Some   objects   require   licenses   to   own   or   operate,   or   are 
restricted to qualifying organizations or individuals. In such cas­
es, a character must pay a license fee to own the object legally. 
A license fee is a separate expense, purchased in addition to the 
object to which it applies.

F Fee or permit often required for purchase.

R Restricted  item on most planets and normally may not 

be sold without a license.

X Illegal on most planets. Possession and use generally vio­
lates Imperial, Republic or local laws except for specially 
authorized individuals. Penalties for use of such an item 
are often severe.

Getting a License

To get a license, you must pay the fee required to file the 
application.   The   amount   of   the   fee   is   a   percentage   of   the 
object’s   normal   cost,   as   listed   in   the   Restricted   Objects  table 
below. Once you’ve paid the fee, you must make the appropriate 
bureaucracy or Knowledge skill roll. If successful, your license is 
approved and will be available to you in a number of days as 
listed in the Time Required column. On a failure, you spend a 
number of days as listed in the Time Required column, but you 
are not granted the license and your application fee is lost. You 
may try again as often as you like if you have the time and  
credits to do so. 

Restriction
Rating
Fee or Permit
Restricted
Military/Illegal

License
Fee*
5%
10%
50%

Difficulty
Level
Moderate
Difficult
Very Difficult

Time
Required
1 day
1D days
2D days

* The license fee is  a % of the licensed object’s base cost.

Whether you succeed or fail on your Knowledge or bureau­
cracy  skill roll, your request is recorded in public records. The 
more restricted the license, the more in-depth the background 
check required, and this leaves an increasingly detailed electron­
ic trail for others to follow.

You can choose to secure a license through illicit means. If  
you   want   to   bribe   an   official,   make   a  persuasion  skill   roll 
instead of a Knowledge or bureaucracy skill roll. If you want to 
fabricate a false identity or steal another person’s identity, make 
a  forgery  skill roll instead of a  Knowledge  or  bureaucracy  skill 
roll.  If   either   of   these   checks   fails   by   5   or   more,   the   local 
authorities are alerted to your activities.

The Black Market

 Most items of equipment, even if they are restricted, can be 
found on the black market if one is willing to look hard enough 
and pay enough money. Sometimes objects are sold on the black 
market   simply   to   avoid   paying   lavish   tariffs   and   fees;   other 
times the black market may be the only way to find a specific 
item.

Selling Items

Sometimes you’ll come into possession of an item that you 
don’t  want.  We’re not  talking  about  commodities  here.  Com­
modities are valuable goods that can easily be exchanged almost 
like cash. We’re talking about individual items from the lists pre­
sented later in this chapter. In general, a merchant will buy used 
equipment at half its listed price. If you have a blaster and want 
to upgrade to a heavy blaster pistol, you can generally sell the 
smaller blaster for half price.

Cost

Costs  indicated  on   the  following  reference  chart  represent 
the average cost of a piece of equipment under normal circum­
stances. Most prices are for “average” equipment in that catego­
ry — as always, prices vary depending on an item’s brand name, 
quality, and other factors (for example a “stripped” landspeeder 
would have a lower price than a similar model equipped with 
lots   of   extras   or   weaponry).   Due   to   local   tariffs,   fluctuating 
availability or other various factors, prices can vary considerably 
based on gamemaster discretion.

GENERAL GOODS TABLE

Commodity
Animal, common
Animal, exotic
Animal, livestock
Art, common
Art, quality
Art, precious
Bacta, 1 liter (1 kg)
Food, common (1 kg)
Food, quality (1 kg)
Food, exotic (1 kg)
Fuel, 1 liter (1 kg)
Gems, semiprecious (1 gram)
Gems, precious (1 gram)
Gems, exotic (1 gram)
Holovid
Metal, common (1 metric ton)
Metal, semi-precious (1 kg)
Metal, precious (1 kg)
Ore, common (1 metric ton)
Spice, common (1 kg)
Spice, exotic (1 gram)
Textiles, common (1 meter)
Textiles, quality (1 meter)
Textiles, exotic (1 meter)
Water, 1 liter (1 kg)

Cost
100
2,000
500
100
1,000
10,000
100
10
20
50
50
100
1,000
10,000
10
2,500
200
10,000
1,500
1,000
20
5
20
100
1

GENERAL GOODS

The table to the left gives baseline prices for fairly broad cat­
egories of goods. The gamemaster can get more specific, add or 
remove  items   depending on   supply and demand in  the cam­
paign, and adjust prices to reflect such fluctuations in the mar ­
ket. Also, prices can vary greatly in different regions of space, 
different star systems, and even between different planets with­
in the same star system.

EQUIPMENT

A sample of common equipment available during the time 
periods covered in this book is given on the opposite page to the 
left. Refer to the descriptions below for other pertinent infor­
mation.

COMMUNICATIONS DEVICES

are assumed to use the same basic set of frequencies. The pri­
mary
differences 
between   them   lie   in 
range,   size,   and   what 
kind   of   data   (audio, 
video,   or   holo)   they 
can   carry.   If   two   or 
more   communication 
devices   are   within 
range   of   one   another 
and share a data type, 
they   can   communi­
cate.

Comlinks

A personal communications transceiver, the comlink consists 
of a receiver, a transmitter, and a power source. Comlinks come 
in a variety of shapes and styles. Comlinks can be adjusted to 
broadcast on countless different frequencies, and there are liter­
ally thousands of encryption modules available to ensure secure 
communications.   (More   expensive   comlinks   can   be   purchased 
with encrypting routines built in, see below).

There are also “Standard Clear Frequencies” (or SCFs) which 
can be used for any public communications, such as when a ship 
wishes to hail a spaceport or other ship, or when a local govern­
ment needs to make a broadcast that should be picked up by all 
comlinks within a specified area. Most comlinks can be set to 
monitor one specific frequency and SCFs simultaneously; more 
advanced comlinks can be set to monitor several frequencies at 
once.

Short-range comlinks  have a range of about 50 kilometers 
(often up to low orbit in clear weather), and they can be built 
into   helmets   and   armor;   for   example,   stormtrooper   armor 
includes a helmet equipped with a short-range comlink.

A long-range comlink has a range of 200 kilometers or high 
orbit,  and  it  requires   with  a  backpack-sized  com set  and  are 
often found in vehicles. For double the cost, a long-range com­
link can be miniaturized to a wrist-sized unit.

Encryption:  A comlink can have hardwired encryption rou­
tines for ten times the base cost. Encryption technology requires 
a Heroic communications roll to decrypt if intercepted. Encrypt­
ed comlinks also create a tiny field of white noise around the 
device   and   whoever   holds   it,   making   it   difficult   to   overhear 
what is said into the unit (−2D  search  penalty to overhear) or 
sounds coming out of it (−3D search penalty).

Video Capability: A comlink can have video capability (two-

dimensional images with audio) for twice the base cost.

Holo Capability: A comlink can have holo capability for five 
times  the base cost. This comlink is able to receive and send 
holographic   images   (three-dimensional   images   in   addition   to 
audio), it can even receive (though not send) HoloNet transmis­
sions. Another feature is the ability to match a recorded holo­
graphic image with the sender’s live audio. When this feature is 
used, the sender’s visual image is replaced by a recorded holo­
gram (of him or another person), which  moves to match the 
sender’s   speech.   Detecting   that   the   image   does   not   exactly 
match the spoken message is a Difficult search task.

 PERSONAL COMLINK

Type: Personal hand-held comlink
Skill: Communications
Cost: 25
Availability: 1
Range: 50 kilometers over land and up to low orbit in good weather.

 MILITARY COMLINK

Type: Military hand-held comlink
Skill: Communications
Cost: 100
Availability: 2,R
Range: 50 kilometers over land and up to low orbit in poor weather.
Game Notes: This comset has access to restricted and encrypted mili­

tary frequencies.

 VEHICLE COMLINK

Type: Vehicle/High-power backpack multi-signal comset
Skill: Communications
Cost: 250
Availability: 1
Range: 200 kilometers surface range, surface-to-orbit in all weather.
Game Notes: This comset must be installed in a vehicle, or worn as a 

backpack.

Subspace Transceiver

Subspace   transceivers   allow   faster-than-light   audio,   video 
and hologram communications at greater ranges than standard 
comlinks, but their ranges are still quite limited. Small subspace 
transceivers may only reach a few light-years away, although 
high-powered units can reach a distance of well over 100 light-
years.   Most   starships   have   a   subspace   transceiver   for   distress 
signals, and the average citizen can normally afford to send a 
subspace message at a relatively modest cost.

Encryption: A subspace radio can have hardwired encryption 
routines   for  five   times  the   base   cost.   Encryption   technology 
requires a Heroic communications roll to decrypt if intercepted.

Video Capability: A subspace radio can have video capability 

(two-dimensional images with audio) for twice the base cost.

 

Holo Capability:  A subspace radio can have holo capability 
for  four   times  the   base   cost.   This   subspace   radio   is   able   to 
receive and send holographic images (three-dimensional images 
in addition to audio), it can receive (though not send) HoloNet 
transmissions. Another feature is the ability to match a recorded 
holographic image with the sender’s live audio. When this fea­
ture is used, the sender’s visual image is replaced by a recorded 
hologram (of him or another person), which moves to match the 
sender’s   speech.   Detecting   that   the   image   does   not   exactly 
match the spoken message is a Difficult search task.

 SUBSPACE TRANSCEIVER (SMALL)

Type: Desktop subspace radio
Skill: Communications: subspace radio
Cost: 300
Availability: 1
Range: 3 light-years.

 SUBSPACE TRANSCEIVER (LARGE)
Type: High-power subspace radio station
Skill: Communications: subspace radio
Cost: 1,000
Availability: 1
Range: 200 light-years.

Pocket Scrambler

This is a simple add-on device that can be attached to any 
normal communications device, such as a comlink or subspace 
transceiver.   The   pocket   scrambler   automatically   encodes   any 
outgoing message so that it can be read only by a communica­
tions device equipped with a linked pocket scrambler. 

 POCKET SCRAMBLER

Model: Verge Corp. PS-xqt9s Pocket Scrambler
Type: Data encryption device
Skill: Communications
Cost: 400
Availability: 4, F or R
Game Notes: An Easy communications roll is required for normal use. 
Without a similar device and the appropriate code, a Very Difficult 
communications roll is necessary to decrypt message.

Jammer Pack

A jammer pack produces communications-fouling noise that 
is broadcast in a 150-meter radius from the unit, completely 
shutting down comlink and holo communication.

 JAMMER PACK

Model: Modified M39 MicroThrust ComTech
Type: Communications disruption unit
Skill: Communications
Cost: 1,000
Availability: X
Game   Notes:  To   successfully   activate   the   jammer   pack   requires   a 
Moderate communications roll. If successful, it produces high-gain 
white   noise   on   all   communications   bandwidths,   preventing   any 
comlink transmission within a 150-meter radius. The communica­
tions roll may also set the difficult for another opposed communi­
cation roll by a person attempting to transmit.

Translators

Communication with aliens who don’t know Basic (or can’t 
speak   Basic,   such   as   Wookiees),   will   likely   use   a   translation 
device. There are myriad available on the market, some with very 
basic pre-programmed phrases, such as a vox-box and others

which are able to translate languages in real-time. Two of the 
more common devices are listed below. Altering one or more of 
a vox-box’s pre-programmed phrases requires a Moderate com­
puter programming/repair roll.

 ALIEN ENHANCER VOX-BOX

Model: Standard Alien Enhancer Vox-Box
Type: Audio playback unit
Cost: 200
Availability: 2 (Basic), 3 (other languages)
Game Notes:  This is a simple audio playback unit with twelve pre-
programmed   basic   phrases   (“Yes”,   “No”,   “Greetings”,   “When?”, 
“Where?”, “How much?”, “Please take me to someone with author­
ity”, “I understand”, “I need medical attention”, “I mean no harm”, 
“I’m sorry”, and “I don’t speak Basic”, each with its own button. 
Useful for species unable to speak Basic. 

 TRANSLITERATOR

Model: Standard Transliterator
Type: Language interpretation unit
Skill: Communications
Cost: 1,200 (includes 500 of the most common languages), 500 (mod­

ule with 500 additional languages)

Availability: 3
Game   Notes:  An   Easy  communications  roll   is   required   to   properly 
select up to 20 different languages to be tracked. Device is effec­
tive to a range of 10 meters, but aural receptors focus on nearest 
sounds first. Individual displays of phrase or word translations can 
either remain in place until manually cleared by user or clear after 
a pre-set delay period of 15 seconds. This unit’s database contains 
500 specific “common” languages and dialects.

COMPUTERS AND STORAGE DEVICES

A  computer  includes  any electronic device that  stores  and 
processes data. In some case, the device may add a bonus when 
making computer programming/repair skill rolls. 

Code Cylinder

A compact encoded security device issued to many military, 
political, or corporate officials, a code cylinder accesses comput­
er data via a droid’s scomp link or provides entry into restricted 
facilities.   Each   cylinder   features   the   user’s   personal   security 
clearance   data.   High-ranking   personnel   may   carry   more   than 
one cylinder, each with different access codes encrypted within 
them. Republic citizens, Imperial officers, and New Republic per­
sonnel use them to facilitate security measures.

 CODE CYLINDER

Model: Standard Code Cylinder
Type: Compact encoded security device
Skill: Computer programming/repair
Cost: 500
Availability: 2
Game Notes: Code cylinders can be programmed at properly equipped 
computers by making an Easy  computer programming/repair  roll. 
Without such systems the difficulty is Very Difficult. If your com­
puter programming/repair  roll fails by 5 or more, the code cylin­
der’s self-destruct programming activates and ruins the cylinder.

Credit Chip

The credit chip is a small, flat card that features a security  
codeout and credit algorithm memory stripes. The chip can hold 
a  specified  number  of  credits   appropriate  to  the  government 
that issued it, or it can draw from a specific account held by the 
user.   Credit   chips   not   only  allow   quick   and   easy   transfers   of

funds   but   also   protect   users   from   theft.   Credit   chips   are 
encrypted storage devices. Accessing a credit chip in order to 
manipulate the credits it will dispense, requires a Very Difficult 
computer programming/repair  roll. If you fail by 5 or more on 
your roll to access an account, the credit chip’s security program 
detects the intrusion attempt and self-destructs.

Modifying a credit chip so that government and bank com­
puters think that it draws on a different account or that it has a 
different value stored requires a Heroic computer programming/ 
repair roll. You won’t know if your check succeeded until after 
you attempt to use the modified credit chip. If you fail, the gov­
ernment or bank computer orders the chip’s self-destruct pro­
gramming   to   activate,   ruining   the   chip.   If   you   fail   by   10   or 
more,   the   chip’s   self-destruct  programming  activates   and  the 
government   or   bank  computer   has   traced   your   location,   dis­
patching security personnel to apprehend you.

 CREDIT CHIP

Model: Standard Credit Chip
Type: Credit chip
Cost: 100
Availability: 1
Game Notes: For a newly purchased chip, a Very Easy computer pro­
gramming/repair  roll is required to encode a password making it 
accessible only by the owner.

Datacard

A   datacard   is   a   simple   storage   device.   Intended   solely   as 
external storage for a computer, it has no interface for direct 
display, editing, or entry of data. They are often called “datat­
apes” in many sectors.

 DATACARD

Model: Standard Datacard
Type: Datacard
Skill: Computer programming/repair
Cost: 10
Availability: 1

Datapad

Datapads   are   electronic   information   storage   devices   noted 
for their small size and portability. Datapads can store relevant 
personal data, encyclopedic entries and other basic information, 
though the microprocessors in such units generally cannot per­
form higher level computing.

Datapads are available in a wide range of configurations — 
less expensive models are often dedicated to the storage and 
collation of a single type of data. Smaller, more expensive units 
can   be   customized   to   handle   a   variety   of  information   types. 
Some   high-priced   datapads   contain   a   small   holo-projector 
which gives the user a “heads-up” display rather than the stan­
dard flat screen common on lower-end units.

 DATAPAD

Model: Standard Datapad
Type: Portable computer workstation
Skill: Computer programming/repair
Cost: 100; (1,000 with holo-projector unit and built-in comlink.)
Availability: 1
Game Notes: Datapads may be used to access public information net­
works or the HoloNet if combined with a comlink or other connec­
tion   device.   It   can   be   loaded   with   as   many   as   5   datacards 
simultaneously.

Mainframe Computer

Mainframes are the complex computer systems and networks 
which are the backbone of corporations, capital ships, and gov­
ernments.  These  systems  support  multiple users  and generally 
have very complex anti-slicing systems  (Requiring Very Difficult 
to   Heroic  computer   programming/repair  skill   rolls   just   to   get 
access to the mainframe). Most large capital starships will have 
a type of mainframe computer.

 MAINFRAME

Model: Standard Mainframe Terminal
Type: Computer mainframe
Skill: Computer programming/repair
Cost: Varies (see below)
Availability: 1
Game Notes:  Mainframes are data processing and information stor­
age computers, capable of supporting multiple users simultaneous­
ly. Mainframe security varies by the kind of corporation it belongs 
to.   Mainframes   grant   a  computer   programming/repair  bonus   to 
rolls involving information download. The bonus depends on the 
mainframe’s power, note that the cost per console is for a single 
computer terminal, not for the entire mainframe computer:

BONUS
+1
+2
1D

COST
2,500
3,900
5,200

BONUS
1D+1
1D+2
2D 

COST
8,500
17,000
43,000

Portable Computer

Compact and light enough to be carried in an attache case or 
backpack but powerful enough to run fairly complex programs, 
portable computers  are the information technology of choice 
for anyone who needs access to a lot of data while on the go. As 
such, they are particularly popular with traveling business exec­
utives, military commanders in the field, and slicers.

 PORTABLE COMPUTER

Model: Standard Hand-held Computer
Type: Computer
Skill: Computer programming/repair
Cost: Varies (see below)
Availability: 1
Game   Notes:  Hand-held   computers   can   be   used   to   access   public 
information networks, or to slice into the HoloNet or other secure  
networks. It can be loaded with as many as 5 datacards simultane­
ously. Hand-held computers grant a computer programming/repair 
bonus   to   rolls   relating   to   calculation,   or   involving   information 
download. The bonus depends on the computer’s power:

BONUS
+1
+2
1D

COST
500
750
1,000

BONUS
1D+1
1D+2
2D 

COST
1,500
3,000
6,000

Personal Computer

Personal computers are designed for use in homes, business­
es, and small starships and transports. They are capable of per­
forming   various   data   searches   on   the   HoloNet   or   other 
networked information systems, and may also assist in various 
calculations and data storage. Note that Nav Computers which 
perform   astrogation   calculations   are   specifically   designed   for 
that task. Personal computers do not generally have that kind of 
computation power.

 PERSONAL COMPUTER

Model: Standard Private Computer
Type: Computer
Skill: Computer programming/repair
Cost: Varies (see below)
Availability: 1
Game Notes:  Private computers can be used to access public infor­
mation networks, or even to slice into the HoloNet or other secure 
networks. It can be loaded with as many as 5 datacards simultane­
ously.   Private   computers   grant   a  computer   programming/repair 
bonus   to   rolls   relating   to   calculation,   or   involving   information 
download. The bonus depends on the computer’s power:

BONUS
+1
+2
1D

COST
250
450
800

BONUS
1D+1
1D+2
2D 

COST
1,200
2,400
4,800

DETECTION AND SURVEILLANCE DEVICES

Some detection devices augment a character’s natural ability 
to perceive its environment (for example, macrobinoculars) pro­
viding a bonus or reducing penalties on  Perception-based skill 
rolls.  Others use sensors to scan their surroundings beyond the 
normal visual and audible range.

Macrobinoculars

Macrobinoculars   are   personal   image-magnification   devices, 
often   capable  of enhancing  vision  up to  one kilometer away 
(this is an “average” set of macrobinoculars; other models may 
have   much   longer   or   shorter   ranges).   These   devices   provide 
computer-enhanced images as well as information on range and 
 search-   and  Perception-oriented   skills   are 
targeting.   All
increased by 3D when using these tools to view areas more than 
100 meters away (normal modifiers apply).

If  attached  to  a  blaster   via   specialized  programming  soft­
ware, they provide a +3D bonus to all medium and long-range 
shots   (they   are   ineffectual   for   short   and   point-blank   range 
shots). Additionally, the user must be using the macrobinoculars 
and weapon in a “sniper” type of position, requiring a steady  
resting spot and at least one round of preparation.

Thousands of different models of macrobinoculars are com­
mercially available. Lower-priced units often forgo any kind of 
“zoom”   feature,   instead   providing  only  a   fixed   magnification. 
Higher-priced macrobinoculars can provide detailed range and 
targeting data and often can record a holographic representa­
tion of whatever is seen through the device’s viewfinder.

 MACROBINOCULARS

Model: Standard macrobinoculars
Skill: Sensors
Cost: 100
Availability: 1
Range: 100-250/500/1,000
Game Notes: All modes have an Easy sensors difficulty at short range, 
increasing   one   level   per   range   band.  Search  and   other  Percep­
tion-based rolls may be increased when using macrobinoculars by 
+3D when used to find something more than 100 meters away.

Glow Rod

Glow   rods   are   portable 
illumination   devices   that 
derive   their   power   from 
long-lasting energy cells or 
chemical   reactants.   Personal 
glow   rods   are   generally   small, 
hand-held units that project a beam of 
light   up   to   50   meters   (although   more   expensive 
models can have much longer ranges).

Some   higher-priced   glow-rods   are   considerably   larger   and 
heavier, but are capable of generating a considerably brighter 
beam. These larger units are often equipped with sturdy legs, 
and a programmable swivel mount, allowing the device to act as 
a limited searchlight or signaling device.

 GLOW ROD

Type: Standard glow rod
Cost: 10
Availability: 1
Range: 50 meters

Fusion Lantern

A hand-held light source larger than a glow rod, the fusion 
lantern produces light and heat. The light spreads out from the 
lantern, producing illumination in a 50 meter radius (although 
more expensive models can have much longer ranges).

Some  higher-priced   fusion   lanterns   are  considerably  larger 
and heavier, but are capable of generating considerably greater 
heat, and a brighter beam and radius. 

 FUSION LANTERN

Type: Standard fusion lantern
Cost: 25
Availability: 1
Range: 50 meter radius

Recording Rod

Recording   rods   are   small,   cylindrical   data   storage   devices. 
Generally, recording rods are 30 centimeters long, and are capa­
ble of recording sounds or visuals within a range of 15 meters. 
Recording  rods  generally  can  store  up to 100  standard  hours 
worth of audio data, which can be accessed repeatedly or fed 
into   a   compatible   computer   system   for   enhancement.   These 
devices   are   re-usable,   though   recording   over   existing   data 
deletes the older information in favor of the new.

Recording rods — like most items commercially available in 
the galaxy — come in a variety of types. Lower-priced models 
allow audio recording only, while others can store audio, visual 
and holographic information.

 RECORDING ROD
Type: Data storage device
Cost: 25 (audio recorder), 50 (video recorder), 100 (holo-recorder)
Availability: 1
Audio Range: 15 meters 
Game Notes: Can store up to 100 standard hours worth of audio data, 

10 hours of video data, or 1 hour of holo-video data.

Sensor Packs

Sensor packs are portable scanning devices that can detect 
life-forms,   com   signals,   energy   emissions,   tectonic   instability 
and any number of other phenomena. Most sensor packs  are 
hand-held devices that are fairly bulky; more sensitive apparatus 
must often be handled by two or more people.

Smaller sensor packs are only capable of detecting a single 
phenomenon  (such  as a  comm  signal  or life-form); the more 
functions the sensor pack is required to perform, the larger the 
unit tends to be. Most hand-held sensor packs are only capable 
of  giving  general   information   about  what  has   been   detected 
(such as the general direction and frequency of a comm signal, 
or the relative distance to a life-form) but cannot give precise 
data. Larger units tend to be more accurate — and more sensi­
tive — but are also more expensive.

 PORTABLE SENSOR PACK

Model: NeuroSaav 8932/D Sensor Pack
Type: Portable scanning device
Skill: Sensors
Cost: 300
Availability: 2
Game   Notes:  The   NeuroSaav   8932/D   is   a   general-purpose   sensor 
apparatus that can detect either the presence of a life form, or the 
presence of a  comm signal. Characters using the unit  receive a 
+1D bonus to sensors. The device can scan up to 300 meters away, 
and will give approximate bearings to the source of a comm trans­
mission or to the location of a life form.

 MILITARY SENSOR PACK

Model: NeuroSaav 4100/Mil Enhanced Sensor Pack
Type: Portable scanning device
Skill: Sensors
Cost: 1,500
Availability: 2, R
Game Notes: Able to scan to a range of 1,000 meters (though more 
than 1 meter of rock or metal blocks it). It can detect movement, 
find life forms, monitor comlink signals, and give the approximate 
bearings   to   the   source   of   a  comm   transmission   or   a   life   form. 
Device gives a +1D bonus to sensors, or search rolls depending on 
the circumstances.

LIFE SUPPORT

ronments, ranging from deep oceans to poisonous atmospheres 
to the vacuum of space. These devices enable creatures to func­
tion in such environments.

Aquata Breather

While underwater, an Aquata Breather can provide up to 2 
hours of breathable air through its mouthpiece. Qui-Gon Jinn 
and Obi-Wan Kenobi used Aquata Breathers while swimming to 
Otoh Gunga in  Episode I: The Phantom Menace, and Obi-Wan 
Kenobi used his again when evading clone troopers on Utapau 
in Episode III: Revenge of the Sith.

 AQUATA BREATHER

Model: A99 Aquata Breather
Type: Breathing device
Cost: 350
Availability: 2
Game Notes:  Provides  up to 2 hours  of breathable  air through its 
mouthpiece. The A99 has advanced filters to allow it to function 
underwater, in a vacuum, and in certain poisonous environments.

Breath Mask

This personal atmosphere-filtering system consists of a mask 
that fits over the nose and mouth and a hose connecting the 
mask to a portable life-support system. A breath mask system 
can be built into a suit of armor; Darth Vader’s armor contains 
such   a   system.   Replacing   the   filter   and   atmosphere   canister 
requires an easy Mechanical skill roll.

 BREATH MASK

Model: VargeCorp Easy Breathing Breath Mask
Type: Breath mask
Cost: 200 (25 for atmosphere canister/filter)
Availability: 1
Game Notes:  A breath mask provides 1 hour of breathable atmos­
phere before the filter and atmosphere canister must be replaced. 
A   functional   breath   mask   grants   immunity   to   inhaled   poisons, 
including poisonous atmospheres. A breath mask offers no protec­
tion from extreme temperatures or hard vacuum.

Space Suits and Vacuum Suits

Space   suits   and   vacuum   suits   are   required   equipment   for 
starfighter pilots. Space suits allow an individual to enter the 
vacuum of space for limited periods of time without harm. Vac­
uum suits — which are favored by most “fighter jocks” — per­
form a similar function.

Space suits are bulky, sealed uniforms that possess an inde­
pendent atmosphere supply, as well as temperature regulators 
and waste recyclers, allowing survival in space for periods of up 
to one week. Higher-priced space suits often  contain interior 
food supplies (dispensed through a tube in the helmet) that can  
extend the survival period.

Vacuum suits are also self-contained environments, though 

they dispense with most of 
the “amenities” provided by 
space   suits.   Most   vacuum 
suits   do   not   contain   suit 
heaters,   and   generally   hold 
enough atmosphere to last a 
few   hours.   However,   most 
starfighter pilots — particu­
larly in the Rebel Alliance — 
view   space   suits   as   bulky 
and obstructive when worn 
in battle. The heavy padding 
and   insulation   in   a   space 
suit   makes   manipulating 
controls in a cramped fight­
er   cockpit   very   difficult. 
Most military pilots are will­
ing   to   trade   the   extra 
atmosphere   a   space   suit 
provides   for   the   reaction 
time a vacuum suit allows.

 VACUUM SUIT

 CUSTOMIZED MEDICAL BACKPACK

Model: Incom Military Vacuum Suite
Type: Personal vacuum suit
Cost: 1,000
Availability: 1
Game Notes: Incom developed this version of the military flight suit 
decades ago; it is in common usage throughout the galaxy. The 
Incom   vacuum   suit   contains   10   hours   worth   of   atmosphere.   A 
player   character   in   space   must   make   a   Moderate  stamina  or 
Strength check every hour he or she is exposed to vacuum or suffer 
a wound caused by the freezing cold of space.

 SPACE SUIT

Model: LifeLine Technologies Model 11 Space Suit
Type: Personal space suit
Cost: 2,000
Availability: 2, F
Game Notes:  The LifeLine Model 11 contains a heating unit, waste 
recycling and onboard food supply. The suit’s power supply, atmos­
phere and food supply will support a character for 24  standard 
days. The wearer suffers a −2D to all Dexterity attribute and skill 
checks.

MEDICAL GEAR

Medical equipment by itself does not restore wounds it can 
only help when used with the  first  aid  and  (A) medicine  skills. 
Several   common   types   of   medical   equipment   are   described 
below.

Bacta Tank

This large, specialized tank is filled with the powerful healing 
agent, bacta, which promotes rapid healing. A bacta tank can be 
used when treating wounds, disease, poison, or radiation in a 
creature. 

A  bacta  tank  and  a   supply   of  bacta   is   expensive,   so   such 
medical   equipment  is   usually  found  only  in   hospitals,   aboard 
capital   ships,   and   within   major   military   bases.   Each   hour   of 
treatment consumes one liter of bacta, which costs 100 credits. 
A typical tank holds up to 300 liters of bacta, and the tank must 
hold at least 150 liters at all times to provide any benefit. Only 
one creature can be immersed in the tank at any given time.

 BACTA TANK

Model: Zaltin and Xucphra Corporation Bacta Tank
Type: Bacta tank
Skill: (A) medicine
Cost: 100,000 (empty), (100 per liter of bacta, tank holds 300 liters)
Availability: 2
Game Notes: Fully heals a patient on a successful Easy (A)medicine or 
Heroic  first  aid  or  Technical  roll.   Healing   time   is   1D   hours   for 
Wounded  patients,  4D  hours   for  Incapacitated  and  1D days  for 
Mortally  Wounded. If the roll fails, patient’s injury worsens two 
levels.

Medical Kit

This backpack-sized medical kit includes almost everything a 
first responder needs to save a life: diagnostic scanners, anti-
venom,   medicine   to   counteract   the   effects   of   contaminated 
water and radiation  poisoning, burn treatments, defibrillators, 
respirator, shock blankets, pressure cuffs, a collapsible repulsor­
lift stretcher for patient transport (capable of hovering with 160 
kg load), and even a surgical cutting tool.

You need a medical kit to revive a dying character, treat dis­

ease, treat poison, or treat radiation.

Model: Chiwab Amalgamated Pharmaceuticals Company ECM-598
Type: Advanced medical kit
Skill: First aid, (A) medicine
Cost: 600
Availability: 2
Game   Notes:  Treat   all   components   as   requiring   a   Very   Easy  (A)  
medicine  roll or a Moderate  first  aid  roll unless otherwise noted. 
Each kit contains the following items:

• Medpacs: A medical kit has six external pouches for carrying med­

pacs (not included in cost).

• Hand-Held Diagnostic Scanner:  Provides readout of patient’s vital 
signs, specifics on injury and recommended procedures. Can also 
be used with a Difficult sensors roll. 

• Medicines: Anesthetics, blood pressure, respiration and pulse regu­
lation   compounds,   as   well   as   other   essential   medicines   (for   a 
number of common species).

•   Emergency   Procedures   Database:  Easy  computer   programming/  
repair roll. Based on initial scanner findings, this emergency data­
base provides the user with a quick reference collection of treat­
ment procedures.

• Filtration Mask: Supplies sufficient oxygen flow; may also be con­
nected to one of several atmospheric compound bottles for non-
oxygen breathers.

• Heat Closure Packs:  Pressurized sealant bandages with medicines 
which, when exposed to air, cauterize and sterilize a wound up to 
10 centimeters in diameter.

• Laser Scalpel: Easy (A) medicine  or Difficult first aid roll. Precision 

cutting tool.

• Medicine Dispenser: Can be loaded with a variety of medicines.
• Portable Repulsor-Stretcher: Collapsible one-person operation anti-

grav stretcher capable of supporting up to 150 kilograms.

• Pressure  Cuffs:  Circular metal sleeves   of  varying  diameter  (5-30 
centimeters) which inflate pressurized chambers around wound 
area.

•   Sterile   Heating   Cloth:  Covers   an   area   up   to   1.6   meters   ×   0.75 

meters with a sterilized, heat-insulated covering.

• 2 Universal Plasma Fluid Sacks: Intravenous feed provides universal 

plasma stabilization serums.

Medpac

Medpacs   are   emergency 
medical   kits   that   contain   the 
necessary   medicines,   stimulants, 
coagulants   and   healing   drugs   to   save 
lives   in   crisis   situations.   While   most 
commercial and military medpacs con­
tain   a  wide  variety of   medical  supplies, 
medpacs   are   not  as   effective   as   a   fully-stocked   medical   bay. 
Medpacs contain supplies for on-site treatment of contusions, 
burns,   broken   limbs   and   other   traumatic   injuries;   serious 
wounds (internal bleeding, brain damage, and so forth) must be 
treated in a more advanced facility.

Most medpacs are designed for use on a limited number of 
species; aliens that are not widespread throughout the galaxy — 
such as the Noghri — will find commercial medpacs of limited 
use. Imperial-issue medpacs contain medicines that are useful 
on humans only.

A character using a medpac must make a successful first aid 

check. One a medpac has been used, it is expended.

 MEDPAC

Type: Standard medpac
Skill: First aid
Cost: 100
Availability: 1
Game  Notes:  Heals  one  wound  level  on  a  successful  first aid  roll, 

being expended after that.

Surgery Kit

This small kit contains the instruments a character needs to 
perform surgery on a wounded character using the (A) medicine 
skill.   Surgery   is   only   required   if   the   gamemaster   deems   the 
injury   to   require   it   (mangled   appendage,   internal   bleeding, 
severe burns) and/or there is no access to a bacta tank. You must 
be trained in the  (A) medicine  skill to perform surgery using a 
surgery kit.

 SURGERY KIT

Type: Standard surgery kit
Skill: (A) medicine
Cost: 1,000
Availability: 2
Game Notes:  Fully heals a patient on a successful  (A) medicine  roll 
(base difficulty is Easy, modified at gamemaster discretion). Diffi­
culty may be modified based on the complexity and conditions of 
the surgery. Healing time is 4D hours for  Wounded  patients, 1D 
days for  Incapacitated  and 2D days for  Mortally  Wounded. If the 
roll fails, patient’s injury worsens two levels.

CYBERNETIC PROSTHETICS

Prosthetics are one of the many wonders of the  Star Wars 
universe.   Prosthetics   generally   replace   badly   damaged   tissue, 
limbs, or internal organs. Other prosthetics actually enhance a 
person’s abilities.

However, while these prosthetics are available, they are not 
very widely accepted. The average galactic citizen feels that the 
distinction between being and machine must remain definite. As 
machine intelligence advances, the feelings of mistrust and fear 
grow stronger and stronger. 

This judgment extends to the use of prosthetics. People with 
prosthetic replacements are considered a little less than human 
(or whatever their race), and are often viewed with pity or mis­
trust. Prosthetic recipients reportedly are less in tune with their 
natural motivations, attitudes and emotions. For these reasons, 
prosthetic recipients often go to great lengths to hide artificial 
limbs and other alterations (Luke Skywalker’s artificial hand is a 
secret to all but his closest friends).

The  use  of  prosthetic  enhancements  is   an   abomination   to 
most people. It is widely believed that no amount of improve­
ment is worth giving up part of oneself and one’s being. Tools 
are available to make you a better shot or give you a better 
computer programming skill — why permanently mutilate your­
self? 

These cybernetic enhancements are not meant to be a shop­
ping  list  for   characters.   Criminals   and   others   who  don’t   care 
what society thinks will be outfitted with this machinery, but 
the players’ characters shouldn’t be. 

Replacement Prosthetics

The primary use of prosthetics in the Star Wars universe is to 
replace limbs and organs damaged beyond repair. Replacements 
duplicate the abilities of the natural organ or limb. They do not 
enhance performance in any way.

 REPLACEMENT PROSTHETICS

Model: BioTech Repli-Limb Prosthetic Replacements
Type: Cybernetic prosthetics
Cost: The following costs include the basic prosthetic and operation:
• Hand 1,000 credits
• Arm 2,000 credits

• Leg 2,000 credits
• Knee 1,200 credits
• Eye 2,750 credits
• Ear 2,750 credits
• Heart 5,000 credits
• Kidney 4,500 credits
• Lungs 4,000 credits
Cyber Points: 1 each
Availability: 4
Game Notes: The prosthetic is almost completely lifelike — a Difficult 
Perception roll is needed to tell the part from an organic one. The 
replacement has no special abilities.

Cybernetic Enhancements

Cybernetic enhancements are available to the desperate of 
the galaxy. They represent technology at its twisted worst. The 
technology   improves   a   person’s   abilities,   but   reduces   their 
humanity. A cybernetic enhancement makes the recipient less 
empathetic toward other beings and increases his chance to be 
consumed by the dark side of the Force.

When a person buys an enhancement package, he increases 
one attribute by a number of pips or die codes. Every skill based 
on that attribute increases by the same number of pips or die 
codes, but  only  if that skill is improved to a die code greater 
than the attribute. In other words, it is much cheaper to buy an 
enhancement before the character has built up high skill codes. 
Every package has a base cost. Use the following formula for the 
attribute and every skill under the attribute:

Base cost × pip increase × starting die code of
attribute or skill (ignore pips)

Each   individual   skill   must   be   paid   for   in   addition   to   the 
attribute. For purposes of determining costs, each full die code 
of   increase   equals   three   pips.  The   operation   must   include   all 
skills and the attribute — a character cannot avoid paying the  
full price of the operation.

Example:  A pirate wishes to increase the Strength 
of a cybernetic hand from 3D+1 to 5D+1. The base 
cost of the hand is 1,000 credits. The desired increase 
is   2D,  or  a   total   of   6  pips,  and  the   base   skill   code 
(ignoring pips) is 3D.

So increasing the Strength code of a replaced hand 
and arm that is currently Strength 3D+1 by 2D would 
cost 1,000 (base cost of the hand) ×6 pips (equivalent 
to the 2D increase in damage) ×3 (for the 3D+1 in 
base   skill   the   hand   already   possesses)   which   equals 
18,000 credits.

There are also less tangible costs. First, many people have a 
strong prejudice against prosthetics, even cosmetic prosthetics 
(Luke Skywalker’s artificial hand is a closely held secret). People 
who have obvious cybernetics are generally met with outright 
fear, suspicion and hatred. Second, Dark Side Points accumulate 
more   quickly   among   the   partially   artificial.   A   cybernetically 
enhanced character who commits evil receives more Dark Side 
Points when they transgress. A replacement is only considered a 
half-enhancement for this purpose, rounding down.

Number of Extra
Enhancements
1-2
3-4
5-6

Extra Dark
Side Points
+1
+2
+3

Note that these rules  will  not have much  of an effect on 
non-Force-sensitive characters, since they only receive Dark Side 
Points when the commit evil and use a Force Point. However, for 
Force-sensitive characters, who receive Dark Side Points when­
ever they commit evil, these rules will require them to be ever-
vigilant and to act with good intentions or risk going over to 
the dark side.

Optional Force User Penalty. The use of prosthetics is espe­
cially dangerous to those who believe in and use the Force. The 
unnatural combination of man and machine makes tapping the 
Force harder, but also opens the person to the temptations of 
the Dark Side once the Force has been called upon. Each pros­
thetic gives the character one cyber point.

Cyber points are penalties applied to all of a character’s Force 
skill dice, at a rate of 2 pip per cyber point for  enhancements 
and 1 pip for  replacements. For example, a character who has 
received an enhanced cybernetic hand, and has an alter of 3D, a 
sense  of 2D+1,  and a  control  of  2D+2, would have his  alter 
Force skill reduced to 2D+1, his sense to 1D+2, and his control 
to 2D.

SURVIVAL GEAR

Whether you’re exploring the Dune Sea of Tatooine or scaling 
the volcanic mountains of Mustafar, you need the right equip­
ment to survive. The most important considerations are food, 
water, shelter, and a way to signal for help. On many worlds, a 
lack of survival gear leads to a quick death.

All-Temperature Cloak

This   wrap-around   cloak   protects   its   wearer   from   the   ele­
ments,  providing a  +1  pip bonus  to its  wearer’s  survival  skill 
rolls.

 ALL-TEMPERATURE CLOAK
Model: A/KT all-temperature cloak
Type: Synthcloth cloak
Cost: 100
Availability: 1
Game Notes: Adds +1 pip bonus to its wearer’s survival skill rolls.

Chain

This 3-meter length of chain can safely support over 5 metric 

tons of weight.

 CHAIN

Type: Chain
Cost: 15
Availability: 1

Field Kit

Essentially a backpack full of survival gear, the typical field 
kit   contains   various   assortments   of   equipment.   Additionally 
some kits will contain medpacks and other survival gear.

 FIELD KIT

Model: Chedak Field Kit
Type: Standard survival knapsack
Cost: 1,000
Availability: 2
Game Notes: A field kit contains :
• 2 condensing canteens with water purification. A Very Easy survival 
roll is required for use. Average filtration time is 5 minutes. The 
unit will notify user when cleansing process is completed.

• a bed roll
• a week’s worth of food rations
• two glow rods
• two breath masks, 24 filters, 12 atmosphere canisters
• and an all-temperature cloak.

Jet Pack

Jet packs are an unusual form of conveyance that more com­
monly see use with military forces or fringe groups (although a 
number of commercial jet packs are available). A jet pack is sim­
ply a propulsion system that a pilot can strap on, allowing flight 
over short distances. Arm and wrist controls are often employed 
for maneuvering, and many civilian packs have limited sound 
baffles to conform with local noise ordinances; while these baf­
fles reduce noise, they also reduce the unit’s speed as well.

 JET PACK

Model: Arakyd Aerodynes, Inc. Hush-About AJP-400
Type: Personal jet pack
Skill: Jet pack operation
Cost: 1,800, 150 (power pack recharge), 150 (portable carrying case)
Availability: 3, F or R
Game Notes: The Arakyd Hush-About AJP-400 is capable of lifting up 
to 300 kilograms (total). It moves vertically 200 meters per charge, 
horizontally up to 500 meters per charge. A fully charged unit has 
10 charges and can be run on continuous charge-feed. During nor­
mal operation this unit produces very little noise. Any attempt to 
locate a Hush-About using auditory pickups requires a successful 
search roll at a +10 penalty to the Difficulty.

Liquid Cable Dispenser

Cable dispensers contain a special liquid that instantly solidi­
fies upon contact with either atmosphere or vacuum to form a 
tough,   lightweight,   flexible   cable.   The   dispenser   contains 
enough liquid for 15 meters of cable and is refillable at autho­
rized outlets.

 LIQUID CABLE DISPENSER

Model: SureGrip Liquid Cable Dispenser
Type: Liquid fiber line dispenser
Cost: 10
Availability: 2
Game Notes: 15 meters. Can support 500 kilograms.

Ration Pack

Ration packs are compact meals that take up little room (you 
can fit six in a pouch designed to carry a data pad) but have all 
the requirements to nourish a person for one day. Each ration 
pack is geared for a range of species. The food isn’t appetizing, 
and it doesn’t include water, but it does prevent malnutrition.

 RATION PACK

Type: Standard dehydrated food pack
Cost: 2
Availability: 5
Game Notes:  Each dehydrated food pack contains enough nourish­

ment for a human for one meal (does not include liquids).

Rocket Pack

Rocket packs are an alternative to jet packs. Where jet packs 
pull outside air into an ignition chamber — mixing fuel and air 
internally to provide thrust — rocket packs contain combustible 
chemical fuel. Because of this, rocket packs do not require out­
side air to generate thrust, allowing the devices to operate in  
space as well as inside an atmosphere.

Rocket   packs   are   heavier   and   louder   than   jet   packs   (due 
largely to the onboard chemical fuel cells). As a trade off, rocket 
packs are considerably faster, and provide a better “all-environ­
ment” flight capability. The main danger in using a rocket pack 
in   combat  is   the   chemical   fuel   cell;   a   stray   blaster   shot   can 
cause a rocket pack to explode.

 ROCKET PACK

Model: Zanclraman DSP-5 rocket pack
Type: Personal rocket pack
Skill: Rocket pack operation
Cost: 400
Availability: 2, R
Game Notes: The DSP-5 rocket pack can carry up to 60 kilograms and 
can move up to 70 meters vertically or 160 meters horizontally in a 
single charge. The unit has 12 charges.

Syntherope

Syntherope is — as the name implies — a synthetic, durable 
multipurpose cable. Created from high-strength polymers, syn­
therope is tough, lightweight and flexible, capable of supporting 
up to 700 kilograms of weight. Although not as compact and 
convenient as  a liquid cable dispenser, syntherope is  stronger 
and more durable. A coil contains 45 meters of syntherope, and 
unlike liquid cable it is meant to be reused.

 SYNTHEROPE

Model: SureGrip Syntherope
Type: Synthetic fiber line
Cost: 20
Availability: 1
Game Notes: 45 meters. Can support 700 kilograms.

TOOLS

Any object designed to make a task easier — or take care of it 
entirely — is essentially a tool. Most technical jobs can be per­
formed   with   a   security  kit  or   tool   kit,  but  some   devices   not 
included in those packages don’t fit under any other category, 
and are presented here.

Binder Cuffs

Binder   cuffs   are   durasteel   restraints   designed   to   lock   two 
limbs of a prisoner together, normally the wrists of ankles, but it 
is possible to lock one arm to one leg or use the binder cuffs to  
hook a prisoner to a tree.

 BINDER CUFFS

Model: Loris Merr-Sonn Binder Cuffs
Type: Personal restraint device
Cost: 50
Availability: 1
Game Notes: Binder cuffs have a Strength of 5D to hold individuals.

Energy Cell

This small battery provides power for devices, including cer­
tain types of low energy weapons. An energy cell appears as a 
small, flat disk. It can be recharged with a power recharger.

 ENERGY CELL

Model: Hortex 4200 Energy Cell
Type: Energy storage cell
Cost: 10
Availability: 1

Fire Extinguisher

Fire-extinguishers   use   a   chemical   agent   to   inhibit   a   fires 
access to oxygen. The chemical is non-toxic to most species and 
is   able   to   fight   most   fire   classes   (electrical,   chemical,   wood), 
however a fire extinguisher is useless against plasma or other 
unusual fire types.

A full-round blast from this tool produces a chemical cloud 
that provides total concealment. Those inside the cloud can’t see 
targets outside the cloud, and those outside the cloud can’t see 
targets inside the cloud. The cloud spreads 5 meters in all direc­
tions for every round it is activated. It dissipates after 3 rounds 
(no   matter   how   large   the   cloud).   Each   round   where   the   fire 
extinguisher is used depletes one-tenth of it’s chemical supply.

 FIRE EXTINGUISHER

Model: Themex 50-A Fire Suppressor
Type: Fire extinguisher
Cost: 50
Availability: 1
Game Notes: The extinguisher can put out a fire of up to a 50 meter 
in   area   at   a   rate   of   5   meters   per   round   before   it   is   depleted. 
Reloading the fire extinguisher takes an entire round. Replacement 
chemical cartridges for the extinguisher cost 25 credits each.

Mesh Tape

The usefulness of mesh tape is limited only by a character’s 
imagination. Mesh tape adhesive can support up to 90 kg indef­
initely (and up to 180 kg for up to 5 rounds).

 MESH TAPE

Model: Standard Mesh Tape
Type: Utility adhesive
Cost: 5
Availability: 1
Game Notes: Mesh tape requires Strength 3D to break when used to 
bind another character. A roll provides 30 meters of tape, 5 cen­
timeters wide.

Power Pack

A power pack is a compact rectangular battery that fits into 
the grip or barrel of an energy weapon, such as a blaster, to pro­
vide the power needed to fire it. A power pack can be recharged 
with a power recharger.

 BLASTER POWER PACK

Model: Standard Blaster Power Pack
Cost: 25
Availability: 1
Damage: Per weapon
Game Notes:  May be used for any blaster in its class: blaster pistol 
packs fit most blaster pistols, blaster rifle packs fit most blaster 
rifles, etc.

Power Recharger

A power recharger is used to recharge a power pack or ener­
gy cell. The recharge process takes 4 hours, and only one power 
pack   or   energy   cell   may   be   recharged   at   a   time.   A   power 
recharger holds enough power to recharge 100 packs or cells, 
but is normally connected to a ship’s or building’s power supply, 
allowing it effectively unlimited recharge capacity.

 POWER RECHARGER

Model: Typical Power Recharger
Type: Portable power recharger
Cost: 100
Availability: 1

Security Kit

A security kit is a set of special tools for bypassing electronic 
and mechanical locks. It usually includes electronic components 
and dedicated sensor devices. On most worlds, possession of a 
security kit is illegal for anyone who doesn’t have the proper  
permits, such as members of law enforcement agencies and pro­
fessional security experts.

 SECURITY KIT

Type: Typical security kit
Skill: Security
Cost: 750, 1,500 (mastercraft)
Availability: 2, R or X

Game Notes:  This item gives it user a +1D bonus on security rolls. It 
also provides a +1D bonus on any repair  rolls relating to security 
systems. A mastercraft security kit provides a +2D bonus to securi­
ty and contains a comlink that monitors frequencies typically used 
by silent alarms, so the user can know if such an alarm has been 
triggered at any point during the operation.

Tool Kit

You may use the various tools in a standard tool kit to repro­
gram a droid or to repair a damaged starship or vehicle. A stan­
dard   toolkit   is   generally  required   for  any   use  of   the   “repair”  
skills. The standard tool kit below, represents a broad collection 
of   tools   designed   to  take   apart,   analyze,   modify,  and  rebuild 
almost any technological device.  Note that each individual tool 
has its own cost and may be purchased piecemeal.

Enhanced tool kits are designed for use with a specific repair 
skill (e.g. repulsorlift repair). Enhanced tool kits contain special, 
unique tools and small parts for repairing various systems and 
components unique to their specialization. At gamemaster dis­
cretion, small components should be included, however, larger 
replacement parts will have to be purchased additionally( e.g. 
hyperdrives, power couplings etc.). Use of any enhanced tool kit 
requires all of the tools listed in the standard tool kit below.

 STANDARD TOOL KIT

Type: Typical tool kit
Skill: various repair skills
Cost: 650 (the individual cost per tool is listed below)
Availability: 1
Game Notes:  This toolkit (or a similar arsenal of tools) is required to 

use any “repair” skill.

• Vibropick  (50 credits): For shorting out electronic components or 

soldering wires). Accidental exposure causes 1D damage.

• Fusion cutter (75 credits): Designed for cutting apart durasteel and 

similar materials. Accidental exposure causes 5D damage.

• Worklight  (25 credits): Illuminates hard-to-see workspaces. Runs 

off power cell (12 hours).

• Hydrospanner (50 credits): Tightens and loosen all forms of fasten­

ers)

• Plasma welder (50 credits): Joins two surfaces together. Allows for 

welds from 0.2-20 centimeters in diameter.

• Beam Drill (50 credits): For punching precise holes through duras­

teel and similar materials.

• Power scanner (150 credits): For analyzing circuitry.
• Power prybar  (30 credits): For forcing things open. When used to 
pry things up, open or apart, this tool adds +1D to +3D to the 
users Strength depending on the model.

• Parts (50 credits): Various circuits, wires and small components.
•  Vibrosaw  (75  credits):   Designed  for  things   that   don’t   call  for  a 

fusion cutter. ) STR+1D damage. 

• Welding goggles (35 credits): Do you don’t burn out your eyes.
• Tool harness (10 credits): For holding all of your tools on your per­

son.

 ENHANCED TOOL KIT
Type: Enhanced tool kit
Skill: specific repair skill
Cost: 500 (+1 pip), 750 (+2 pip), 1,000 (+1D)
Availability: 1
Game Notes:  This toolkit gives the user a bonus for repair work on 
one specific repair skill (starfighter repair, aquatic vehicle repair,  
blaster repair, droid repair, equipment repair, walker repair, repul­
sorlift   repair  etc.)   ranging   from   +1   to   +1D   based   on   the   price 
(Requires all of the tools from the “custom tool kit” above).

Utility Belt

A utility belt has several pouches containing a three-day sup­
ply of food capsules, a medpac, a small tool kit, a spare power  
pack, a spare energy cell, a glow rod, a comlink, a liquid cable 
dispenser with a small grappling hook, and a couple of empty  
pouches for whatever else the wearer wants to add (up to 0.5 kg 
per pouch).

 UTILITY BELT

Model: Standard Utility Belt
Type: Utility belt
Cost: 500
Availability: 2

WEAPON AND ARMOR ACCESSORIES

A number of off-the-shelf accessories can enhance one’s per­

formance on the battlefield.

Bandolier

Since   there   are   so   many   types   of   weapons,   there   are   an 
equally large number of ammunition types. Depending upon the 
weapons   the   wearer   carries,   a   bandolier   may   contain   energy 
cells   or   power   packs   (blasters),   clips   (slugthrowers),   explosive 
bolts   (bowcasters),   magazines   (missile   launchers),   grenades, 
knives, or any other forms of ammunition.

 BANDOLIER

Model: Ayelixe/Krongbing textiles Bandolier
Type: Bandolier
Scale: Character
Cost: 300
Availability: 2
Game Notes:  A bandolier has 12 slots that can each hold a single 
small weapon (such as a grenade or a knife) or a single piece of 
equipment weighing up to about 0.5 kg. Any item on the bandolier 
can be retrieved as a non-roll action.

Helmet Package

When installed in the helmet of a suit of armor, this elec­
tronic package allows the armor to grant the wearer a bonus to 
Perception  checks   in   low-visibility  situations,   and   a   bonus   to 
ranged weapon skill uses against targets that move more than 
10 meters per round. It also includes an integrated hands-free 
com link. Stormtrooper armor and its variants include such a 
system (MFTAS, or Multi-Frequency Target Acquisition System), 
already   included   in   its   statistics.   Installing   a   helmet   package 
takes 1 hour and a Moderate armor repair check.

 HELMET PACKAGE

Model: Corellian Engineering HTP-40
Type: Helmet Targeting System
Scale: Character
Cost: 4,000
Availability: 2, R
Game   Notes: Helmet   contains   tongue-activated   comlink.   Targeting 
system adds +1D to Perception  checks in low-visibility situations, 
and +1D to ranged weapon skill uses against targets that move 
more than 10 meters per round.

Holster

Holsters are generally available for smaller weapons. (Larger 
weapons are carried on shoulder straps or other convalescences 
that cost  as a hip holster.) A holster for a melee weapon is usu­
ally called a sheath.

Hip   Holster:  This   holster   holds   the   weapon   in   an   easily 

accessed-and easily seen-location.

Concealed Holster:  A concealed holster is designed to help 
keep a weapon out of sight. In most cases, this is a shoulder hol­
ster   (the   weapon   fits   under   the   wearer’s   armpit,   presumably 
beneath a jacket, vest, or cloak). Small weapons and single-blad­
ed lightsabers  can  be carried in concealed waistband holsters 
(often placed inside the wearer’s waistband in the small of the  
back), or carried in ankle, boot, or wrist holsters.

A  concealed  holster  requires   an  Easy  Dexterity  skill   roll  to 

draw the weapon, this is considered an action.

 HOLSTER

Type: Typical weapon holster
Scale: Character
Cost: 25 (Hip), 50 (Concealed)
Availability: 1

Targeting Scope

A targeting scope is a sighting device that makes it easier to 
hit distant targets. However, it affords  a very limited field of 
view, making it difficult to use unless in a steady aiming posi­
tion. Installing a targeting scope on a rifle or pistol requires 10 
minutes and an Easy equipment or blaster repair skill roll.

Standard: A standard targeting scope adds a bonus to medi­
um- and long-range shots from blaster and slugthrowing rifles 
and carbines. However, you must aim at your target to gain this 
benefit, and you lose the benefit if you change targets or lose 
line of sight to your target.

Enhanced: An enhanced targeting scope adds +3D to medi­
um- and long-range shots from blaster and slugthrowing rifles 
and carbines. Requires a Moderate sensors roll to sight-in a tar­
get. However, you must aim at your target to gain this benefit, 
and you lose the benefit if you change targets or lose line of 
sight to your target.

Enhanced Low-Light:  A low-light targeting scope functions 
the same as a standard targeting scope in normal light. Howev­
er, after aiming at a target, it allows the wielder to ignore cover 
(but not complete darkness) from darkness when attacking that 
target.

 STANDARD SCOPE

Model: SoroSuub True-Site System
Type: Electronic blaster sighting system
Skill: varies
Cost: 100 (1,000 low-light)
Availability: 2
Game Notes: Projected hologram crosshairs add 1D to blaster (or oth­

er ranged weapon skill) for up to long-range.

 ENHANCED MACROSCOPE

Model: Merr-Sonn Targeter Ranging Scope
Type: Weapon-mounted image magnifier
Skill: Sensors
Cost: 750 (1,650 low-light)
Availability: 2
Game   Notes:  Adds   +3D   to   medium-   and   long-range   shots   from 
blaster and slugthrowing rifles and carbines. Requires a Moderate 
sensors roll to sight-in a target.

MELEE WEAPONS

Used in close combat, melee weapons usually deal bludgeon­
ing, slashing, or piercing damage, depending on the weapon’s 
design.   Some   combine   powered   components   to   augment   the 
user’s own strength.

Amphistaff

An amphistaff is a serpentine creature genetically engineered 
by the Yuuzhan Vong to serve as a weapon. The amphistaff can 
become as rigid as stone or as flexible as rope, and it can con­
tract the muscles around its head and tail to form razor-sharp 
edges.

The amphistaff has three distinct weapon forms: quarterstaff, 
spear,  or   whip.  Switching  from   one  weapon   form   to  another 
takes an action.

 AMPHISTAFF

Type: Multi-purpose melee weapon
Scale: Character
Skill: Melee combat: Amphistaff
Cost: Not available for sale
Availability: 4, X
Difficulty: Varies (see below)
Damage: Varies (see below)
Game   Notes:  The   amphistaff   is   an   organic   weapon   used   by   the 
Yuuzhan Vong. If used by someone familiar with its various func­
tions, the amphistaff can be used in the following modes:

Quarterstaff: A two-headed spear which adds +1D to all parry rolls.
Whip:  Adds +1D to attempts to “disarm” or “entangle” an opponent; 

successful hits with the whip inject venom.

Whip-spear:   Shares   the   qualities   of   both   the   whip   and   the   spear, 

though the granted bonuses are only +2 pips.

Venom Spitter: In addition, the amphistaff can spit venom, or inject it 
with a successful whip hit that results in a damage result higher 
than Stunned. Either way, a victim affected by amphistaff venom 
must succeed at a Very Difficult  Strength  check. If injected, the 
poison reduces the victim’s Dexterity score by 1D (cumulatively). If 
the poison is sprayed into a victim’s eyes, blindness results. The 
effects  last  until the  venom is treated.  Statistics  for amphistaff 
weapons are listed below:

Difficulty Range
Mode
Quarterstaff
Melee
Easy
Two-Headed Spear Moderate Melee
Moderate Melee
Whip
n/a
Venom Spitter

1-3/10/20

Damage
STR+1D+1
STR+2D
STR+1D+2
Poison

Max
5D
7D
6D
n/a

Atlatl

A Gungan weapon, the atlatl adds speed and power as an 
extension of a throwing arm, allowing the user to hurl energy 
balls farther than with just an unaided toss. If forced into close 
combat,   the   wielder   can   use   the   atlatl   as   a   club-like   melee 
weapon.

 ATLATL

Type: Melee weapon or thrown weapon (w/energy balls)
Scale: Character
Skill: Melee combat: atlatl / Thrown weapons: atlatl
Ammo: 1
Cost: 50
Availability: 3,R
Difficulty: Very Easy (club)
Range: 10/20/40 (energy ball)
Damage:  STR+1D   (maximum:   5D),   3D   (stun   or   ionization   damage, 

energy ball)

Bayonet

When mounted on a rifle, a bayonet allows you to use the 
rifle as a melee weapon much like a spear. A bayonet requires 
two hands to use when mounted on a rifle. A bayonet cannot be 
used on a rifle with a folded stock. A bayonet detached from a 
rifle is treated as a knife; a mounted bayonet deals more dam­
age than the knife because of the added leverage and bulk.

 BAYONET

Type: Typical bayonet
Scale: Character
Skill: Melee combat: bayonet
Cost: 75
Availability: 2, F
Difficulty: Easy
Damage: STR+1D

Cesta

Another Gungan weapon, the cesta is a flexible pole used to 
hurl small energy balls. It can also be used as a staff-like melee 
weapon.

 CESTA

Type: Melee weapon or thrown weapon (w/energy balls)
Scale: Character
Skill: Melee combat: cesta/Thrown weapons: cesta
Ammo: 1
Cost: 100
Availability: 3, R
Difficulty: Easy
Range: 20/40/80 (energy ball)
Damage: STR+1D+1 (maximum: 6D), 3D (stun or ionization damage)

Club/Baton

Powered   by   the   wielder’s   brute   strength,   clubs   break   an 
opponent’s bones, or worse. They are the favored weapons of 
thugs. Batons (a variety of the club) are used by police forces on 
relatively peaceful worlds in crowd-control situations.

 CLUB

Type: Typical club
Scale: Character
Skill: Melee combat: club
Cost: 15
Availability: 1
Difficulty: Very Easy
Damage: STR+1D

Electrostaff

An electrostaff is a double weapon: Each end has an electro­
magnetic pulse generator that discharges upon impact, allowing 
it to deal blunt-force wounds. If desired, either electromagnetic 
pulse   can   be   set   to   stun   its   target   instead.   An   electrostaff 
requires two energy cells to operate.

 ELECTROSTAFF

Type: Double electric staff
Scale: Character
Skill: Melee combat: electrostaff
Cost: 5,750
Availability: 3
Difficulty: Difficult
Damage: STR+3D (maximum: 6D)
Game Notes: Characters with the melee combat: electrostaff special­
ization gain a +5 bonus to melee parry rolls. This weapon can parry 
lightsabers without taking damage.

Force Pike

Force pikes are one-meter-long poles topped with power tips. 
A two-setting power dial located near the bottom of the pike 
allows the user to set the weapon to “lethal” or “stun.” Although 
primarily a vibro weapon, the force pike also delivers an electri­
cal shock through its tip, dealing both piercing and energy dam­
age. A force pike requires 2 energy cells.

 FORCE PIKE

Type: Personal force pike
Scale: Character
Skill: Melee combat: force pike
Cost: 500
Availability: 2, R
Difficulty: Moderate
Damage: STR+2D

Gaderffii Stick

The   traditional   weapon  of   the   fearsome   Tusken  Raiders   of 
Tatooine, the gaderffii stick (or gaffi stick) is a deadly weapon 
that resembles an axe. Typically, the gaderffii is fashioned from 
scrap   metal   that   the   Sand  People   scavenge   from   wrecked   or 
abandoned vehicles and machinery found in the sandy wastes of 
Tatooine.   Despite   the   weapon’s   primitive   construction,   it   is   a 
highly   serviceable   weapon...   particularly   in   the   hands   of   the 
ferocious Sand People.

 GADERFFII STICK

Type: Homemade melee weapon
Scale: Character
Skill: Melee combat: gaderffii stick
Cost: 50 (if even available)
Availability: 3,F
Difficulty: Easy
Damage: STR+1D

Hatchet

A  common   tool   used  by  hunters   and  warriors  in  primitive 
cultures, but also commonly used as survival tools by even the 
most advanced cultures. Primitive  variations  may simply be  a 
stone blade lashed to a piece of wood, but in advanced cultures 
these weapons are usually constructed out of a durable metal 
alloy. Hatchets can be used as thrown weapons.

 HATCHET

Type: Typical hatchet
Scale: Character
Skill: Melee combat: hatchet / thrown weapons: hatchet
Cost: 35
Availability: 1
Difficulty: Easy
Range: 3-6/10/15
Damage: STR+2, 1D+2 (if thrown)

Knife

In an age of powered, long-range energy weapons, the main 
advantage of a knife is that it is easy and cheap to manufacture, 
concealable,   requires   no   power   source   beyond   sheer   physical 
strength, and possession is rarely regulated by planetary govern­
ments. 

 KNIFE

Model: Standard knife
Type: Melee weapon
Scale: Character
Skill: Melee combat: knife

Cost: 25
Availability: 1
Difficulty: Very Easy
Damage: STR +1 to STR+1D (based on type of knife) (maximum: 6D)

Spear

A common weapon used by hunters and warriors in primitive 
cultures, the spear is a long wooden pole with a sharp end fash ­
ioned from stone or metal. Members of more advanced cultures 
enjoy using spears for sport, though these weapons are usually 
constructed out of a durable metal alloy. Spears can be used as 
thrown weapons.

 SPEAR

Type: Typical spear
Scale: Character
Skill: Melee combat: spear/Thrown weapons: spear
Cost: 60
Availability: 1
Difficulty: Easy
Range: 3-10/20/30
Damage: STR+1D+1, 2D+2 (if thrown)

Staff

  A Staff is made of wood, plasteel, or a metal alloy. A user 
can strike with either end of the staff, taking full advantage of 
any openings in an opponent’s defenses.

 STAFF

Type: Typical staff
Scale: Character
Skill: Melee combat: staff
Cost: 15
Availability: 1
Difficulty: Very Easy
Damage: STR+1D

Stun Gauntlets

Essentially   gloves,   or   apparatuses   for   the   fists,   the   stun 
gauntlets can be activated to produce a stunning charge when 
the user’s fist strikes a target.

Stun gauntlets require an energy cell to operate.

 STUN GAUNTLETS

Model: Typical stun gauntlets
Type: Hand-to-hand stun

gauntlets
Scale: Character
Skill: Brawling
Ammo: 10 charges
Cost: 300
Availability: 2
Difficulty: Easy
Damage: STR+2D stun

Vibro-Ax

This   powerful   vibro   weapon   features   an   energy   cell   that 
causes the blade to vibrate rapidly when activated. This gives 
the weapon far greater power than a standard axe, with mini­
mal effort from the wielder. A vibro-ax requires an energy cell.

 VIBRO-AX

Model: Standard vibro-ax
Type: Melee weapon
Scale: Character
Skill: Melee combat: vibro-ax
Cost: 500
Availability: 2, R
Difficulty: Moderate
Damage: STR+2D to STR+3D+1 (depending on model) (maximum: 7D)

Vibroblade

The vibroblade is a close-combat weapon favored by soldiers 
and   mercenaries   throughout   the   galaxy.   It   resembles   a   short 
sword with a high-tech look and feel. Vibroblades are illegal in 
most urban areas. A vibroblade requires an energy cell to oper­
ate.

 VIBROBLADE

Model: Standard vibroblade
Type: Melee 
Scale: Character
Skill: Melee combat: vibroblade
Cost: 250
Availability: 2, F
Difficulty: Moderate
Damage: STR+1D to STR+3D (depending on model) (maximum: 6D)

Lightsaber

The   lightsaber,   simple   in   design   yet   difficult   to   wield   and 
master, features a hand grip hilt that projects a blade of pure 
energy. The traditional weapon of the Jedi, the lightsaber stands 
as a symbol of their skill, dedication, and authority.

The blade of a lightsaber is generated by an energy cell and 
focused   through   crystals   within   the   hilt.   The   saber   can   cut 
through   most   materials   (except   another   lightsaber   blade,   an 
energy  shield,  or a  few   exotic  materials),  given  enough  time. 
Because only the hand grip has any weight, unskilled users have 
difficulty judging the position of the blade. The lightsaber’s true 
potential becomes apparent in the hands of a fully trained Jedi, 
who can defend and attack with the weapon, deflecting shots or 
striking opponents with the glowing blade.

A lightsaber requires a special energy cell to operate (the cost 
is ten  times  the price of  an ordinary energy cell, but it lasts 
almost indefinitely).

The   weapons   are   extremely   rare   artifacts   —   they   are   very 
rarely found for sale and possession of a lightsaber was highly 
illegal in the Empire.

 LIGHTSABER

Type: Melee weapon
Scale: Character
Skill: Lightsaber
Cost: Unavailable for sale
Availability: 4, X
Difficulty: Difficult
Damage: 5D
Game Notes:  in an attacking character misses the difficulty number 
by more than 10 points (the base difficulty; not their opponent’s 
parry total), the character has injured himself with the lightsaber 
blade. Apply normal damage to the character wielding the blade.

Lightsaber, Double-Bladed

The double-bladed lightsaber consists of two sabers fused at 
their hilts. These weapons are rare and require even greater skill  
to wield than single-bladed lightsabers. One or both blades can 
be ignited at once.

A double-bladed lightsaber requires two special energy cells 
to operate (the cost of each is ten times the price of an ordinary 
energy cell, but it lasts almost indefinitely).

 DOUBLE-BLADED LIGHTSABER

Type: Melee weapon
Scale: Character
Skill: Lightsaber: double-bladed lightsaber
Cost: Not available for sale
Availability: 4, X
Difficulty: Difficult
Damage: 5D
Game Notes:  Proper use of a double-bladed lightsaber requires the 
specialization  Lightsaber:   Double-Bladed   Lightsaber.   Without   the 
proper   specialization,   the   difficulty   to   use   a   double-bladed 
lightsaber is one grade higher than normal (i.e., Very Difficult), and 
none of the special benefits of the double-bladed lightsaber may 
be used. If used with only a single blade projected, a double-blad­
ed lightsaber is treated as if it were a normal lightsaber. If properly 
trained,   a   Jedi   wielding   a   double-bladed   lightsaber   gains   a   +5 
bonus   to   all  parry  rolls   made   when   both   lightsaber   blades   are 
extended. If an attacking character misses the difficulty number by 
more than 10 points (the base difficulty; not their opponent’s parry 
total), the character has injured himself with the lightsaber. Apply 
normal damage to the character wielding the lightsaber.

Lightsaber, Short

 NET

Small  Jedi  characters  such as Master Yoda favor the short 
lightsaber, sometimes called a shoto. Jedi skilled at two-weapon 
fighting   often   use   the   shoto   as   their   off-hand   weapon   of 
choice. A short lightsaber requires a special energy cell to oper­
ate (the cost is ten times the price of an ordinary energy cell,  
but it lasts almost indefinitely.)

 SHORT LIGHTSABER
Type: Melee weapon
Scale: Character
Skill: Lightsaber
Cost: Unavailable for sale
Availability: 4, X
Difficulty: Moderate
Damage: 4D
Game Notes:  If an attacking character misses the difficulty number 
by more than 10 points (the base difficulty; not their opponent’s 
parry total), the character has injured himself with the lightsaber. 
Apply normal damage to the character wielding the lightsaber.

ARCHAIC RANGED WEAPONS
While most often seen on primitive worlds, archaic weapons 
are still used for sport and hobby alike on the more advanced 
worlds   of   the   galaxy.   From   Ewoks   to   quixotic   Jedi,   archaic 
weapons will always be present, and often times will be far more 
useful to the wielder than meets the eye.

Crossbow

A crossbow is often a hunting or combat weapon on low-
tech worlds, A primitive crossbow and its arrows are made of 
wood, more advanced models are augmented with metal, while 
the   most   high-tech   versions   tend   to   be   made   from   durable, 
lightweight composite materials.

 CROSSBOW
Type: Typical bow
Scale: Character
Skill: Bows: crossbow
Ammo: 1
Cost: 200 (10 bolts: 25 credits)
Availability: 1, F
Range: 3-10/30/50
Damage: 2D+2

Longbow

The bow is a typical hunter’s weapon on low-tech worlds, but 
it is also used for sport on high-tech planets. A primitive bow 
and its arrows are made of wood and augmented with metal or 
stone,   while   more   advanced   versions   tend   to   be   made   from 
durable, lightweight composite materials.

 LONGBOW

Type: Typical bow
Scale: Character
Skill: Bows: longbow
Ammo: 1
Cost: 200 (10 arrows: 20 credits)
Availability: 1, F
Range: 3-10/30/100
Damage: 2D+2

Net

Nets are used for hunting and fishing in primitive cultures 

and for nonlethal crowd control in more advanced ones.

Model: Net
Type: Primitive missile weapon
Scale: Character
Skill: Thrown weapons: Net
Cost: 20
Availability: 3
Range: 1-3/5/10
Damage: Entangles with a Strength of 4D
Game Notes: Any character successfully entangled by a net suffers a 
−2D  penalty  to  all   actions,  including  initiative   rolls.   Untangling 
oneself from a net can be accomplished in one of two ways: either 
the   entangled   character   must   succeed   at   a   Moderate  Dexterity 
check and take 1D turns to free himself (failure indicates he may 
try again, but at one difficulty level lower), or he must make an 
opposed Strength check against the net’s Strength score.

Sling

A primitive weapon, the sling hurls metal bullets or stones.

 SLING

Model: Sling
Type: Primitive missile weapon
Scale: Character
Skill: Thrown weapons: sling
Ammo: 1 (stone)
Cost: Not available for sale
Availability: 3, F
Fire Rate: 1
Range: 3-7/15/30
Damage: 2D+1

Throwing Knife

In an age of powered, long-range energy weapons, the main 
advantage of a throwing knife is that it is easy and cheap to 
manufacture,  concealable,   requires   no   power   source   beyond 
sheer   physical   strength,   and  possession   is   rarely   regulated   by 
planetary governments. A throwing knife can be used as a nor­
mal knife in melee combat.

 THROWING KNIFE

Type: Standard throwing knife
Scale: Character
Skill: Thrown weapons: knife
Cost: 35
Availability: 1
Range: 2-3/5/10
Damage: 1D+2 (if thrown)
Game Notes: May be used as a normal knife in melee combat. Melee 

damage is STR+2 (maximum: 6D).

Black-powder Pistol

This design will likely be one of the first firearms a culture 
develops. Cumbersome, difficult to reload, and largely inaccu­
rate, they are generally only favored by those of lower tech cul­
tures.

 BLACK-POWDER PISTOL
Type: Typical black-powder pistol
Scale: Character
Skill: Archaic guns: black-powder pistol
Ammo: 1
Cost: 200 (10 balls: 2 credits)
Availability: 2, R
Fire Rate: 1/4 (4 rounds to reload)
Range: 3-4/8/12
Damage: 2D+2

Musket

Slightly   longer   ranged,   more   accurate,   and   more   powerful 
than  the black-powder pistol, the musket is still an  unwieldy 
weapon, and difficult to reload.

 MUSKET

Type: Typical musket
Scale: Character
Skill: Archaic guns: musket
Ammo: 1
Cost: 250 (10 balls: 2 credits)
Availability: 2, R
Fire Rate: 1/5 (5 rounds to reload)
Range: 3-10/30/100
Damage: 3D

Slugthrower Pistol

These primitive projectile weapons are almost never used by 
most military forces due to their ineffectiveness against modern 
armor, and their tendency to run out of ammunition quickly. 
Slugthrowers are most often found on primitive settlements or 
in pre-spaceflight cultures; occasionally a Rebel unit will find 
them useful for shock value (they are extremely loud). Converse­
ly, some Rebel units prefer the use of slugthrowers; it is possible 
to silence a projectile weapon, not a blaster.

 SLUGTHROWER PISTOL
Type: Typical slugthrower pistol
Scale: Character
Skill: Firearms: slugthrower
Ammo: 16 
Cost: 300 (ammo clip: 8 credits)
Availability: 2, F
Fire Rate: 1
Range: 3-10/30/60
Damage: 3D
Game Notes: −1D damage when used on a target with body armor.

Slugthrower Rifle

A slugthrower rifle is the larger cousin of the slugthrower 

 SLUGTHROWER RIFLE
Type: Typical slugthrower rifle
Scale: Character
Skill: Firearms: slugthrower rifle
Ammo: 15
Cost: 360 (ammo clip: 10 credits)
Availability: 2,R
Fire Rate: 1
Range: 3-30/100/300
Damage: 3D+1
Game Notes: −1D damage when used on a target with body armor

Submachine Gun

The final evolution of the slugthrower, a submachine gun is a 
compact, high rate-of-fire weapon. In game terms, each round 
the weapon is fired, it emits a burst of bullets. Rather than track 
each individual bullet, ammo is tracked via individual burst. It 
also doesn’t need a power pack. 

 SUBMACHINE GUN

Type: Typical submachine gun
Scale: Character
Skill: Firearms: submachine gun
Ammo: 15 (bursts of fire)
Cost: 600 (ammo clip: 15 credits)
Availability: 2,R
Fire Rate: 1 (fires a burst of ammo)
Range: 3-10/30/100
Damage: 4D
Game Notes: −1D damage when used on a target with body armor

BLASTERS

Blasters   are   the   most   common   types   of   weapons   used 
throughout   the   galaxy.   Blasters   utilize   a   variety   of   so-called 
blaster gases, which are excited by the energy provided from 
power packs. The charge released takes the form of coherent 
light which delivers killing energy to the target. All hand blasters 
can be set to “stun” unless otherwise indicated.

pistol (see above). It also doesn’t need a power pack. 

Hold-Out Blaster

Small enough to be hidden in the hand of a human, hold-out 
blasters are common in urban areas with strict weapon controls 
and among undercover agents.

Hold-out blasters require custom designed power packs and 
only hold enough blaster gas for a few shots. They are illegal or 
closely regulated in most systems. Many systems, however, look 
on them as a “self-defense” alternative to the more powerful 
types of personal weapons available.

 HOLD-OUT BLASTER
Type: Concealable blaster
Scale: Character
Skill: Blaster: hold-out blaster
Ammo: 6
Cost: 275 (power packs: 25)
Availability: 2, R or X
Fire Rate: 1
Range: 3-4/8/12
Damage: 3D

Sporting Blaster

A small, short blaster, often used for small-game hunting or 
personal defense. Sometimes used for dueling. This is the small­
est weapon to use standard power packs. (Princess Leia used a 
sporting blaster in Star Wars: A New Hope).

 SPORTING BLASTER
Type: Sporting blaster
Scale: Character
Skill: Blaster: sporting blaster
Ammo: 50
Cost: 350 (power packs: 25)
Availability: 1, F
Fire Rate: 1
Range: 3-10/30/60
Damage: 3D+1

Blaster Pistol

The word “blaster” is a blanket term for literally thousands of 
different designs from hundreds of manufacturers, such as the 
popular BlasTech DL-18. Blasters are popular with urban police 
forces, traders, and anyone who needs to pack respectable fire­
power in an easily carried package. Ownership of these weapons 
is restricted in many systems.

 BLASTER PISTOL
Type: Blaster pistol
Scale: Character
Skill: Blaster: blaster pistol
Ammo: 100
Cost: 500 (power packs: 25)
Availability: 1, F, R or X
Fire Rate: 1
Range: 3-10/30/120
Damage: 4D

Heavy Blaster Pistol

A heavy blaster pistol is a compromise: it gives the user a lot 
more firepower, but with a very limited range — this is accom­
plished by draining a lot of energy from the power pack, at the 
expense of ammo. A heavy blaster pistol is crammed into a stan­
dard pistol frame, making it easy to disguise if necessary. These 
weapons are illegal or heavily restricted in many systems. Han 
Solo’s   favorite   weapon   is   a   modified   BlasTech   DL-44   heavy 
blaster pistol.

 HEAVY BLASTER PISTOL
Type: Heavy blaster pistol
Scale: Character
Skill: Blaster: heavy blaster pistol
Ammo: 25
Cost: 750 (power packs: 25)
Availability: 1, F, R or X
Fire Rate: 1
Range: 3-7/25/50
Damage: 5D

Hunting Blaster

Small   enough   to   wield   for   small   game,   but   packing   a   bit 
more power to fell larger game, the hunting blaster utilizes a 
shoulder stock to help increase the accuracy of the weapon. This 
weapon is very popular in Outer Rim planets.

 HUNTING BLASTER
Type: Hunting Blaster
Scale: Character
Skill: Blaster: hunting blaster
Ammo: 50
Cost: 500 (power packs: 25)
Availability: 2 or F
Fire Rate: 1
Range: 3-30/100/300
Damage: 4D

Blaster Carbine

This small blaster rifle has a short barrel and compact two-
handed grip, making it look more like a long pistol than a rifle. 
However, they are rugged and reliable and malfunctions are very 
rare. These weapons are less advanced than blaster rifles, and 
older models can often be found at greatly discounted prices.

 BLASTER CARBINE
Type: Blaster carbine
Scale: Character
Skill: Blaster: blaster carbine
Ammo: 100
Cost: 900 (power packs: 25)
Availability: 2, F, R or X
Fire Rate: 1
Range: 3-25/50/250
Damage: 5D
Game Notes: At Long range, increase difficulty by +5.

Blaster Rifle

The basic blaster rifle is standard issue to soldiers across the  
galaxy.   Some   blaster   rifles,   such   as   the   BlasTech   E-11   (or   its 
“clone,”   the   SoroSuub   Stormtrooper   One)   have   a   retractable 
stock. A blaster rifle without a retractable stock costs 900 cred­
its (instead of 1,000 credits).

 BLASTER RIFLE
Type: Blaster rifle
Scale: Character
Skill: Blaster: blaster rifle
Ammo: 100
Cost: 1,000 (power packs: 25)
Availability: 2,X
Fire Rate: 1
Range: 3-30/100/300
Damage: 5D
Game   Notes:  If  the   retractable   stock   and   scope   are   used   for   one 
round   of   aiming,   the   character   receives   an   additional   +1D   to 
blaster.

Heavy Blaster Rifle

The heavy blaster rifle is a larger, more powerful version of 
the   blaster   rifle   (see   above)   often   used   by   clone   troopers, 
stormtroopers, and other troops during battles on open terrain. 
Because of its size, it is not well suited to close-quarters fight­
ing, but makes an excellent longer range, personal rifle.

 HEAVY BLASTER RIFLE
Type: Heavy blaster rifle
Scale: Character
Skill: Blaster: blaster rifle
Ammo: 100
Cost: 1,500
Availability: 2, X
Fire Rate: 1
Range: 3-40/120/300
Damage: 5D+1
Game Notes: If retractable stock and scope are used for one round of 

aiming, the character receives an additional +1D to blaster.

Sporting Blaster Rifle

Built in an attempt to circumvent restrictions on the blaster 
rifle,  the  “sport rifle”   is   merely  a   smaller  version   of  its   more 
lethal cousin. It was introduced early in the days of the Empire 
by groups that worried over the new centralization of power. 
However, it is just as restricted in use as the blaster rifle.

 SPORTING BLASTER RIFLE

 HEAVY REPEATING BLASTER

Type: Sporting blaster rifle
Scale: Character
Skill: Blaster: blaster rifle
Ammo: 100
Cost: 900 (power packs: 25)
Availability: 1, F
Fire Rate: 1
Range: 3-40/120/350
Damage: 4D+1
Game Notes: If the retractable stock and scope are used for 1 round 
of aiming, the character receives an additional +1D to blaster.

Light Repeating Blaster

Longer and more powerful than blaster rifles, these weapons 
are for large-scale actions, often supplementing ground squads 
and providing cover for artillery gunners while their weapons 
are being set up. These weapons are normally about one to one-
and-a-half   meters   long,   and   can   be   run   off   power   packs   or 
attached   to   generators   for   unlimited   firepower     (see   E-Web 
power generator rules to the right). They are normally available 
only to the military, but sometimes the odd smuggler, pirate, or 
bounty hunter manages to “acquire” one through less than legal 
means.

 LIGHT REPEATING BLASTER

Type: Light repeating blaster
Scale: Character
Skill: Blaster: repeating blaster
Ammo: 25 or Power generator only
Cost: 2,000 (power packs: 25)
Availability: 2, X
Fire Rate: 1
Range: 3-50/120/300
Damage: 6D

Heavy Repeating Blaster

The heavy repeating blaster is a fearsome weapon typically 
operated from a bunker emplacement or mounted on a combat 
vehicle.  The  heavy  repeating  blaster operates  only in autofire 
mode. If you use a heavy repeating blaster without a tripod or 
other  mount, you   cannot  brace  the  weapon  and suffer  a  1D 
penalty to your skill roll.

A heavy repeating blaster requires a power pack to operate. 
After 20 shots, the power pack must be replaced. This weapon  
can also be attached to a power generator for longer use. (see 
E-Web Repeating Blaster on opposite column for power genera­
tor rules).

Type: Heavy repeating blaster
Scale: Character
Skill: Blaster: repeating blaster
Ammo: 20 or Power generator only
Cost: 3,000
Availability: 2, X
Fire Rate: 1
Range: 3-60/150/400
Damage: 7D

E-Web Repeating Blaster

The E-Web is at the limit of “portable” blaster weapon tech­
nology  —   troops   can   carry   it,   but   they   certainly   can’t   fire   it 
without tripod mounting. It is normally allotted as an infantry 
support weapon, and the crew is expected to keep the weapon  
moving   with   the   troops   for   backup   when   needed.   Imperial 
snowtroopers on Hoth used E-Webs.

Normally,   the   E-Web   repeating   blaster   requires   a   second 
crewman to regulate the weapon’s power generator; this second 
crewman must make an Easy blaster: repeating blaster skill rill 
while adjacent to the weapon to regulate its power. After you 
regulate the E-Web repeating blaster’s power, it will function 
normally until the beginning of your next turn. If the weapon’s 
power is not regulated (that is, if a second crewman has not 
done so or failed his skill roll), apply a −1D penalty on all attack  
rolls made with the weapon.

 E-WEB REPEATING BLASTER

Model: BlasTech E-Web Repeating Blaster
Type: Two-man heavy repeating blaster
Scale: Character
Skill: Blaster: repeating blaster
Ammo: Power generator only
Cost: 5,000
Availability: 2, X
Range: 3-75/200/500
Damage: 8D

MISCELLANEOUS WEAPONS

Bowcaster

A weapon unique to the arboreal Wookiees of Kashyyyk, the 
bowcaster (also called a laser crossbow) is an ancient and curi­
ous combination of energy and projectile weapon.

The   weapon   requires   great   physical   strength   to   cock   and 
load. The weapon fires explosive quarrels wrapped in an energy 
cocoon,  giving the  explosive  the  appearance  of  an  elongated 
blaster bolt. The weapons are only available on Kashyyyk.

 BOWCASTER

Type: Energy/projectile weapon hybrid
Scale: Character
Skill: Bowcaster
Ammo: 6 (quarrels; power packs fire 50 shots before being replaced)
Cost: 900 Not sold to non-Wookiees
Availability: 3, R
Fire Rate: 1
Range: 3-10/30/50
Damage: 4D
Game Notes: If a character wants to fire the weapon more than once 
in a round, he must make an Easy Strength roll to be able to aim 
the weapon (this is a “free action”). Reloading the weapon with 
new quarrels requires a Moderate Strength roll.

Scale: Character
Skill: Blaster: ion rifle
Ammo: 30 (power packs: 25)
Cost: 800
Availability: 2,R
Fire Rate: 1
Range: 3-30/60/90
Damage: 4D+2 ionization damage

Riot Gun

A riot gun refers to any weapon that is designed to disable or 
otherwise knock organic beings unconscious. There are different 
varieties of riot guns that use stun blasts, concussion, chemicals, 
or other means to disable victims. 

 RIOT GUN
Type: Riot Gun
Scale: Character
Skill: Blaster: blaster rifle
Ammo: 50 
Cost: 750
Availability: 2, R
Fire Rate: 1
Range: 3-10/30/60
Damage: 8D (Stun)

Stun Pistol

Designed exclusively for nonlethal crowd control, stun-pistols 
only fire stun bolts, and emit a glowing blue arc that can immo­
bilize  an   organic   target,  but   causes   no  damage  to  inanimate 
objects.

 STUN PISTOL
Type: Stun pistol
Scale: Character
Skill: Blaster: blaster pistol
Ammo: 50
Cost: 200
Availability: 1, F
Fire Rate: 1
Range: 3-10/20/40
Damage: 3D (Stun)
Game   Notes:  A   stunning   weapon   that   is   smaller   than   a   hold-out 
blaster. Increase the listed price to 1,500 credits for a model that 
adds +5 to the difficulty of any  search  or  sensors  rolls made to 
detect it. 

BLASTER ARTILLERY

Blaster artillery covers a bewildering array of weapons and 
their   uses,   from   anti-troop   weapons   to   permanent   low-orbit 
anti-starship weapons.

Anti-Infantry Laser Battery

This  is a very basic, effective anti-infantry weapon. A gun 
Crew   sits   inside   the   armored   shell   of   the   weapon,   protected 
from incidental fire and the elements of even the most hostile 
environments. On particularly unforgiving worlds, the tower can 
be installed so that the gun crew can access it without leaving 
the safety of the base’s enclosure.

Flamethrower

The flamethrower is a ranged weapon that shoots a cone of 
burning chemicals. Reloading the flamethrower takes an entire 
round.   Targets   continue   to   take   burning   damage   at   4D   per 
round until the fire is extinguished. Replacement chemical car­
tridges for the flame-thrower cost 200 credits.

 FLAMETHROWER
Type: Flamethrower
Scale: Character
Skill: Flamethrower
Ammo: 25
Cost: 700
Availability: 4,X
Fire Rate: 1/2
Range: 3-5/7/10
Damage: 5D+1 (1st round), 4D (each additional round)

Ion Pistol

Ion pistols fire streams of energy that wreak havoc on elec­
trical   systems,   and   they   are   usually   employed   against   droids, 
light vehicles, and some types of equipment. When used nor­
mally, an ion pistol fries a droid’s circuits and internal compo­
nents, inflicting lethal damage. If set to “stun,” it works much 
the same as a blaster set on stun works against organic oppo­
nents. A droid stunned in such a way is out of commission for 
2D minutes. An ion pistol’s blast has no effect on organic tar­
gets, unless such targets have cybernetic replacements.

 ION PISTOL

Model: Generic Ion Pistol
Type: Ion gun
Scale: Character
Skill: Blaster: ion pistol
Ammo: 30 (power packs: 25)
Cost: 250
Availability: 2, R
Fire Rate: 1
Range: 3-8/16/24
Damage: 4D ionization damage

Ion Rifle

Aside from somewhat higher damage and increased range, an 

ion rifle works in much the same was as an ion pistol. 

 ION RIFLE

Model: Generic Ion Rifle
Type: Ion gun

 ANTI-INFANTRY LASER BATTERY

Model: Golan Arms DF.9
Type: Medium anti-infantry battery
Scale: Speeder
Skill: Blaster artillery: anti-infantry
Crew: 3

 TURBOLASER BATTERY

Model: Loronar Turbolaser System 1
Type: Heavy fixed turbolaser emplacement
Scale: Starfighter
Skill: Blaster artillery: surface-to-space
Crew: 5
Cover: Full
Ammo: Unlimited (power generator)
Cost: 250,000 (new), 125,000 (used)
Availability: 3, X
Body: 4D
Fire Rate: 2
Fire Control: 1D
Range: 50-600/5/25 km
Blast Radius: 10 meters
Damage: 6D

EXPLOSIVES

Fragmentation Grenade

Grenades come in a variety of sizes and forms, and can be 
simple explosives, or may eject noxious gases or smoke or any 
other number of payloads, depending upon the specific needs of 
the purchaser.

 FRAGMENTATION GRENADE

Type: Grenade
Scale: Character
Skill: Grenade
Cost: 200
Availability: 1, R
Range: 3-7/20/40
Blast Radius: 0-2/4/6/10
Damage: 5D/4D/3D/2D

Grenade, Ion

When the object of a mission is to capture droids or vehicles, 
mercenary units, military personnel, and local law enforcement 
agencies use ion grenades. The standard ion grenade unleashes a 
brief electrostatic pulse that disables droids, electronic devices, 
and vehicles within its burst radius. It is designed to explode on 
contact   after   it   is   thrown,   effectively  dealing   damage   in   the 
same round it is hurled.

 ION GRENADE
Type: Ion grenade
Scale: Character
Skill: Grenade
Cost: 300
Availability: 2, R
Range: 3-7/20/40
Blast Radius: 0-2/4/6/10
Damage: 7D/5D/3D/2D (Ionization)

Cover: Full
Ammo: Unlimited (power generator)
Cost: 15,000 (new), 9,500 (used)
Availability: 3, R or X
Body: 3D
Fire Rate: 2
Fire Control: 2D
Range: 20-600/3/16 km
Blast Radius: 0-8 meters
Damage: 4D

Anti-Vehicle Laser Cannon

The Atgar 1.4 FD P-Tower is one of the most common anti-
vehicle field artillery weapons. The weapons are under-powered 
and difficult to move, but they are readily available. The Atgar 
P-Tower is resistant to many extremes in temperature and envi­
ronment.   Unfortunately,   its   power-grid   dish   is   configured   in 
such a way that it is very easy to target. The weapon requires a 
crew of four: one chief gunner, and three support personnel to 
regulate energy flow and recharge its power cells.

 ANTI-VEHICLE LASER CANNON

Model: Atgar 1.4 FD P-Tower
Type: Light anti-vehicle laser cannon
Scale: Speeder
Skill: Blaster artillery: anti-vehicle
Crew: 4, skeleton: 2/+10
Cost: 10,000 (new), 2,000 (used)
Availability: 2, R or X
Body: 2D
Fire Rate: 1/2
Fire Control: 1D
Range: 10-500/2 /10 km
Damage: 2D+2

Anti-Orbital Ion Cannon

Ion cannons are idea for use against heavily mechanized ene­
mies.   Listed   here   are   two   popular   cannons   from   the   KDY   v-
series, including the KDY v-150 that saw distinguished service 
during the Battle of Hoth.

 HEAVY ANTI-ORBITAL ION CANNON

Model: KDY v-150 Planet Defender
Type: Heavy ion surface-to-space cannon
Scale: Starfighter
Skill: Blaster artillery: surface-to-space
Crew: 27, skeleton: 12/+10
Cover: Full
Ammo: Unlimited (power generator)
Cost: 500,000 (new), 100,000 (used)
Availability: 3, X
Body: 5D
Fire Rate: 1
Fire Control: 5D
Range: Atmosphere/Low Orbit (1*)/High Orbit (3*)
Damage: 14D (ionization)
* This refers to the number of “units” from the planet if conducting a 

space battle

Turbolaser Battery

Excellent for installation defense — especially on space sta­
tions or asteroids — turbolasers require enormous amounts of 
energy. However, with adequate power supplies, turbolaser are 
excellent anti-starfighter starfighter weapons.

Grenade, Stun

When the object of a mission is to detain or subdue rather 
than   kill,   mercenary   units,   military   personnel,   and   local   law 
enforcement   agencies   use   stun   grenades.   The   standard   stun 
grenade unleashes concussive energy that knocks out creatures 
within its burst radius. Droids, vehicles, and objects are immune 
to stun damage.

 STUN GRENADE
Type: Stun grenade
Scale: Character
Skill: Grenade
Cost: 400
Availability: 2, R
Range: 3-7/20/40
Blast Radius: 0-2/4/6/8
Damage: 6D/5D/3D/2D (Stun)
Game Notes: Stun grenades are rechargeable

Grenade Launcher

Grenade launchers are military weapons that greatly improve 
the   range   of   grenades.   Grenades   fired   by   grenade   launchers 
always explode on impact, regardless of timers or other consid­
erations. The type of grenade used determines the damage, type, 
and   burst   radius.   Grenade   launchers   cannot   be   used   to   hurl 
thermal detonators because these devices are simply too big and 
heavy (although some larger grenade mortars can hurl thermal 
detonators as well).

 GRENADE LAUNCHER
Type: Grenade launcher
Scale: Character
Skill: Missile weapons: grenade launcher
Ammo: 4
Cost: 500
Availability: 2, X
Fire Rate: 1
Range: 0-250/350/500
Blast Radius: By grenade type
Damage: By grenade type

Rocket Launcher

A rocket launcher fires a high-speed projectile with an explo­
sive warhead. The standard rocket unleashes metal shrapnel with 
explosive   force,   shredding   targets   within   the   rocket’s   blast 
radius.

 ROCKET LAUNCHER

Type: Portable rocket launcher
Scale: Speeder
Skill: Missile weapons: rocket launcher
Ammo: 4 rockets
Cost: 2,000 
Availability: 2, X
Range: 5-50/150/400
Blast Radius: 0-2/5/10/15
Damage: 6D/4D/3D/2D

Mines

Mines  are used to eliminate incoming troops  and vehicles. 
Most are triggered by physical pressure (such as moving ground 
troops) or the presence of repulsor fields (generated by incom­
ing vehicles). The  demolitions  skill roll of the character setting 
the mine is equal to the hide value of the mine (in case someone 
is searching for it) and the “to hit” roll of the weapon. When the 
mine is triggered, the character must use his normal  dodge  to 

get out of the immediate blast radius of the explosion — if his 
normal dodge is higher than the demolitions roll, then he gets 
to the next higher range of the radius. A successful full  dodge 
will get the character out of the entire blast radius.

 ANTIPERSONNEL MINE
Type: Anti-personnel mine
Scale: Character
Skill: Demolitions: land mines
Cost: 500
Availability: 2, X
Blast Radius: 0-2/4/6/10
Damage: 5D/4D/3D/2D

 VEHICLE MINE

Type: Anti-vehicle mine
Scale: Speeder
Skill: Demolitions: land mines
Cost: 750
Availability: 2, X
Blast Radius: 0-2/4/6/10
Damage: 5D/4D/3D/2D (speeder-scale damage)

Explosive Charge

Sometimes   a   mission   calls   for   the   use   of   more   powerful 
explosives   than   either   grenades   or   thermal   detonators.   Set 
explosives   aren’t   ranged   weapons   and   can’t   be   used   like 
grenades.

When set and activated, the charge’s timer begins counting 
down.   Standard   timers   can   be   set   with   as   much   as   an   hour 
delay. Longer delays require specialized timers.

Explosive charges are highly restricted, usually only available 
to military or law  enforcement  specialists  or  specialized con­
struction   units.   Han   Solo   and   his   strike   team   used   proton 
grenade explosive charges to take out the shield generator on 
Endor in Episode VI: Return of the Jedi.

An explosive charge delivers a lot of destructive energy to a 
specific point, making it perfect for demolishing structures or 
clearing  rubble.   It   causes   negligible   damage   beyond  its   burst 
radius. Of course, collateral damage and subsequent explosions 
usually accompany the use of an explosive charge.

 EXPLOSIVE CHARGE
Type: Explosive Charge
Scale: Character
Skill: Demolitions: explosive charge
Cost: 100
Availability: 1, R
Damage: 1D

 STANDARD DETONATOR

Cost: 50
Availability: 1, R

 TIMER FUSE

Cost: 50
Availability: 1, R
Note: User can set with Easy demolitions roll. Time can vary from sec­

onds to hours to days.

 REMOTE FUSE

Cost: 100
Availability: 2, R
Note: User can set with Easy demolitions roll. Remote has a range of 
1,000 meters, or may be fixed to a comlink with a Moderate com­
puter programming/repair roll.

Detonite

Detonite is a contact explosive that comes in tiny clay-like 
blocks.   It   can   be   shaped   or   molded   around   a   target   and 
crammed into small cracks. Detonite is very stable in its normal 
forms and requires a timer to be set off.

 DETONITE

Type: Detonite Charge
Scale: Speeder
Skill: Demolitions: explosive charge
Cost: 500 per cube
Availability: 2, R
Damage: 1D (speeder-scale damage)

Thermal Detonator

The thermal detonator is a highly effective weapon of terror 
and destruction. It is fist-sized, yet packs enough explosive to 
destroy everything within a small building.

 THERMAL DETONATOR

Type: Thermal Detonator
Scale: Character
Skill: Grenade
Cost: 2,000
Availability: 2, X
Range: 3-4/7/12
Blast Radius: 0-2/8/12/20
Damage: 10D/8D/5D/2D

ARMOR

With the advance of blaster weapons, armor has become less 
and less popular: most soldiers in the field soon realized that 
their   armor   would   be   ineffectual   in   stopping   those   bolts   of 
energy, and their speed and quickness would be of prime impor­
tance.   Armor   is   more   useful   against   many   slugthrowing 
weapons, so it is common on very primitive worlds.

Armor protects a specific portion of a person’s body. If an 
attack hits that area, the wearer may add the die code of the 
armor to his Strength roll to resist damage.

Armor may cover one of six locations: head, torso, left arm, 
right arm, left leg, and right leg. Head and torso armor may pro­
vide different protection to the front and back, and if so, the 
distinction is indicated.

Armored Spacesuit

This bulky coverall contains a sealed life support system that 
provides everything the wearer needs to survive for 25 hours in 
the vacuum of space or any other hostile environment.

 ARMORED SPACESUIT

Model: Merr-Sonn Weapons Superior Boarding Armor
Type: Armored space suit
Cost: 10,000
Availability: 2, X
Game Notes: Armor provides +2D versus energy, +1D versus physical 
damage; −1D from Dexterity and related skills. Holds 25 hours of 
atmosphere.

Rocket Pack: Suit includes a rocket pack; Space Move: 1, uses rocket  

pack operation.

Battle Armor, Medium

Battle armor combines pro­
tective   metal   or   composite 
plates with a padded jumpsuit 
to form a layer of protection. 
While   off-the-rack   battle 
armor  is   available,   most  users 
cobble   together   their   gear 
from various sources.

 MEDIUM BATTLE
 ARMOR

Model: Drolan Plasteel TYI Flex-

Armor

Type: Personal armor
Scale: Character
Cost: 2,000
Availability: 3
Game Notes: Head, torso, arms, 
legs: +1D to all physical and 
energy  attacks; −1D penalty 
to all  Dexterity  and  Percep­
tion 
  attribute   and   skill 
checks.

Battle Armor, Heavy

  Similar   to   regular   battle 
armor, heavy battle armor fea­
tures more plating than padding, including various pieces mold­
ed to fit the user, such as breastplates and armor covering the 
arms and legs.

 HEAVY BATTLE ARMOR

Model: Core World Arms Dura-Armor
Type: Impact-resistant molded armor
Scale: Character
Cost: 8,000
Availability: 3
Game Notes: Head, torso, arms, legs: +2D to all physical (non-energy) 
attacks; +2D to all energy attacks; −2D penalty to all Dexterity and 
Perception attribute and skill checks.

Blast Helmet and Vest

This armor consists of a lightweight helmet and a composite 
vest that, when worn together, offer limited protection against 
incoming attacks.

 BLAST HELMET

Model: Typical blast helmet
Type: Personal armor
Scale: Character
Cost: 200
Availability: 1
Game Notes: +1D physical, +1 energy (head only).

 BLAST VEST

Model: Typical blast vest
Type: Personal armor
Scale: Character
Cost: 300
Availability: 1
Game Notes: +1D physical, +1 energy (torso).

Ceremonial Armor

 ARMORED FLIGHT SUIT

Ceremonial   armor   blends   practicality   with   ornate   design. 
Republic Guards and Imperial Royal Guards wear different styles 
of ceremonial armor. A typical suit of ceremonial armor consists 
of a helmet, durable breast guard, shoulder guards, and articu­
lated greaves for the arms and legs.

 ROYAL GUARD ARMOR

Model: Standard Royal Guard Armor
Type: Military armor
Scale: Character
Cost: Not available for sale
Availability: 3, X
Game Notes:
Armor Protection: +2D physical, +1D energy, −1D Dexterity and relat­

ed skills.

Comlink: Tongue-activated top-security scrambler helmet comlink.
Sealed Body Glove:  Climate controlled body glove and breath mask 
allows operation in extremely cold or warm climates and toxic-air 
environments.

MFTAS:  Multi-Frequency Targeting Acquisition System; adds +3D to 
Perception  and search checks in low-visibility situations, +2D to 
ranged weapon skill uses against targets moving more than 10 
meters per round; polarized lenses prevent flash-blinding.

Utility Belt: High-tension wire, grappling hooks, spare blaster power 
packs,   ion   flares,   concentrated   rations,   spare   comlink,   water 
packs, 2 medpacs.

Combat Jumpsuit

This heavily padded jumpsuit is designed to provide limited 
protection against physical and energy trauma without overly 
restricting the wearer’s movement.

 COMBAT JUMPSUIT

Model: A/KT Tuff1 Combat Jumpsuit
Type: Light combat armor
Cost: 1,000
Availability: 2
Game Notes: Provides +1D physical, +2 energy protection.

Corellian Powersuit

This suit of body armor contains an energized exoskeleton 
and a series of servomotors  that boosts the wearer’s  physical 
strength. Used by professional soldiers, mercenaries, and bounty 
hunters, the powersuit requires skill and training to use effec­
tively.

 CORELLIAN POWERSUIT
Model: Corellian powersuit
Type: Powersuit body armor
Scale: Character
Skill: Powersuit operation
Cost: 10,000
Availability: 2, R
Game Notes: +1D+2 physical, +1D energy, −1D Dexterity and related 
attributes.  Servos  in  the  armor  provide  +1D  Strength  bonus   for 
lifting  skill rolls and melee and brawling  damage. If the  wearer 
can’t make an Easy powersuit operation roll, or if the armor is dis­
abled or out of power, this bonus doesn’t apply and the wearer 
suffers a further −1D penalty to Strength and Dexterity.

Flight Suit, Armored

A combat-ready flight suit that provides additional protec­
tion against vacuum for limited periods, this  armor comes  in 
various models, including the Corellian TX-3 (favored by various 
pirate gangs) and the Imperial TIE flight suit (worn by TIE fighter 
pilots throughout the Empire).

Model: Corellian TX-3
Type: Armored flight suit
Scale: Character
Cost: 4,000
Availability: 2
Game Notes: Provides +1D to Strength to resist physical and energy 
damage and additional protection against vacuum for limited peri­
ods. It grants a +1D+1 bonus to  stamina  to resist cold tempera­
tures.   An   armored   flight   suit   provides   up   to   10   hours   of   life 
support, allowing its wearer to survive in the vacuum of space or 
any other hostile environment.

Utility Belt: Ion flares, one week concentrated rations, spare comlink, 

water packs, 1 medpac.

Flight Suit, Padded

Favored by starfighter pilots allover the galaxy, the one-piece 
padded flight suit protects against decompression, g-forces, and 
harmful   environments.   It   provides   limited   protection   against 
attacks as well. 

 PADDED FLIGHT SUIT

Type: Typical padded flight suit
Scale: Character
Cost: 2,000
Availability: 1
Game Notes: Provides +1 to Strength  to resist physical  damage and 
additional protection against decompression, g-forces and harmful 
environments. Comes with a matching helmet and gloves that seal 
around the wearer and provide up to 10 hours of life support. It 
grants a +2 bonus to stamina to resist cold temperatures.

Stormtrooper/Clone Trooper Armor

Stormtroopers are the elite shock troops of the Empire, and 
their stark white protective armor is unmistakable. The armor is 
an 18-piece cocoon which surrounds the soldier. Ownership of 
Stormtrooper armor by non-stormtroopers is a serious offense 
in all Empire systems — and inherently dangerous in non-Empire 
systems.

Variants of this armor also exist, including scout snowtrooper 
armor,  sandtrooper  armor, and  clone  trooper  armor. Each  has 
slightly different details, but all include the basic characteristics 
common to all stormtrooper armor. Though unavailable on the 
open market, these suits can occasionally be found on the black 
market (or sometimes much higher).

The Clone Troopers wore a very similar armor, although not 

quite as technologically advanced as the stormtrooper variant.

 CLONE TROOPER ARMOR

Model: Republic Clone Trooper Armor, Mark I
Type: Military armor
Scale: Character
Cost: Not available for sale
Availability: 3, X
Game Notes:
Armor Protection:  +2D  physical, +1D  energy, −1D penalty  Dexterity 

and related skills.

Comlink: Tongue-activated helmet comlink.
Body   Glove:  Climate   controlled   body   glove   allows   operation   in 

uncomfortably cold or warm climates.

MFTAS:  Multi-Frequency  Targeting  Acquisition  System;  adds  +1  to 
Perception  checks   in   low-visibility   situations,   +1   to   ranged 
weapon skill uses against targets moving more than 10 meters 
per round.

Utility Belt: High-tension wire, grappling hooks, spare blaster power 
packs,   ion   flares,   concentrated   rations,   spare   comlink,   water 
packs, 2 medpacs.

 STORMTROOPER ARMOR

 SNOWTROOPER ARMOR

Model: Standard Stormtrooper armor
Type: Military armor
Scale: Character
Cost: Not available for sale
Availability: 3, X
Game Notes: 
Armor Protection: +2D physical, +1D energy. −1D penalty to all Dex­

terity attribute and skill checks.

Comlink: Helmet contains tongue-activated comlink.
MFTAS:  Multi-Frequency Targeting and Acquisition System (MFTAS), 
+2D   to  Perception  checks   in   low-visibility   situations,   +2D   to 
ranged weapon skill uses against targets that move more than 10 
meters per round; polarized lenses prevent flashblinding.

Model: Standard Cold Assault Trooper armor
Type: Military armor
Scale: Character
Cost: Not available for sale
Availability: 3, X
Game Notes: 
Armor Protection: +1D physical, +1D energy. −1D penalty to all Dex­

terity attribute and skill checks.

Comlink: Helmet contains tongue-activated comlink.
MFTAS:  Multi-Frequency Targeting and Acquisition System (MFTAS), 
+2D   to  Perception  checks   in   low-visibility   situations,   +2D   to 
ranged weapon skill uses against targets that move more than 10 
meters per round; polarized lenses prevent flashblinding.

Body Glove: Climate controlled body glove (allows operation in mod­

Body   Glove:  Climate   controlled   body   glove   (allows   operation   in 

extremely cold climates and toxic-air environments).

Utility Belt: High-tension wire, grappling hooks, spare blaster power 
packs,   ion   flares,   concentrated   rations,   spare   comlink,   water 
packs, 2 medpacs, a thermal tent and attachment for snowboot 
slippers.

Vonduun Crabshell Armor

Yuuzhan   Vong   warriors   wear   this   bioengineered   “living 
armor” into battle. The armor clings to its wearer’s body like a 
parasite until its wearer dies or decides to remove it. It is not  
found anywhere except in the hands of the Yuuzhan Vong.

 VONDUUN CRABSHELL ARMOR
Model: Warrior’s Vonduun Crab Armor
Type: Yuuzhan Vong personal armor
Scale: Character
Cost: Not available for sale
Availability: 4, X
Game  Notes:  Grants a +1D+1 bonus to  Strength  rolls to resist all 
forms of damage, but reduces the wearer’s Dexterity score by −1D.

erately warm or cold climates).

Utility Belt: High-tension wire, grappling hooks, spare blaster power 
packs,   ion   flares,   concentrated   rations,   spare   comlink,   water 
packs, 2 medpacs.

 SCOUT TROOPER ARMOR

Model: Standard Stormtrooper Scour armor
Type: Military armor
Scale: Character
Cost: Not available for sale
Availability: 3, X
Game Notes: 
Armor Protection: +2 physical, +2 energy.
Comlink: Helmet contains tongue-activated comlink.
MFTAS:  Multi-Frequency Targeting and Acquisition System (MFTAS), 
+2D   to  Perception  checks   in   low-visibility   situations,   +2D   to 
ranged weapon skill uses against targets that move more than 10 
meters per round; polarized lenses prevent flashblinding.

Body Glove: Climate controlled body glove (allows operation in mod­

erately warm or cold climates).

Viewplate:  Macrobinocular   imaging   set   (100-250/500/1,000   meter 

range) with sensor relay.

Sensor Pack: Enables user to make passive sensor scans (no bonus); in 
forward focus the scanner patches into the rider’s viewplate to 
provide navigation aid (+2D to repulsorlift operation)

Utility Belt: High-tension wire, grappling hooks, spare blaster power 
packs,   ion   flares,   concentrated   rations,   spare   comlink,   water 
packs, 2 medpacs, camo tent, water purifier.

SERVICES AND EXPENSES

A brief listing of common services and expenses is given on  
the  table   below.  The  cost   figures   on   the  table   are  guidelines 
only; the cost of certain services and expenses may be higher in 
isolated or primitive areas.

SERVICES AND EXPENSES

Service
Dining (meal): Luxurious
Dining (meal): Upscale
Dining (meal): Average
Dining (meal): Budget
Lodging (day): Luxurious
Lodging (day): Upscale
Lodging (day): Average
Lodging (day): Budget
Bacta tank treatment (per hour)
Long-term medical care (per day)
Medpac treatment
Surgery (per hour)
Treat disease (per day)
Treat poison (per hour)
Treat radiation (per day)
Taxi, local
Passage, steerage (up to 5 days)
Passage, average (up to 5 days)
Passage, upscale (up to 5 days)
Passage, luxurious (up to 5 days)
Chartered space transport (up to 5 days)
Upkeep (month):Luxurious
Upkeep (month): Wealthy
Upkeep (month): Comfortable
Upkeep (month): Average
Upkeep (month): Struggling
Upkeep (month): Impoverished
Upkeep (month): Self-sufficient
Vehicle Rental (day): Speeder bike
Vehicle Rental (day): Landspeeder, average
Vehicle Rental (day): Landspeeder, luxury
Vehicle Rental (day): Airspeeder
Vehicle Rental (day): Shuttle, interplanetary
Vehicle Rental (day): Shuttle, interstellar

Cost
150
50
10
2
200
100
50
20
300
300
300
500
500
100
1,000
10
500
1,000
2,000
5,000
10,000
10,000
5,000
2,000
1,000
500
200
100
20
50
100
500
1,000
2,000

GAMEMASTER NOTES

The Star Wars universe is full of interesting, useful and exotic 
technology.   Compared   to   present   day   Earth,   the   technology 
available “A long time ago, in a galaxy far, far away...” is clearly  
superior. From the elegant lightsaber  to  the  astromech  droid, 
nothing is more useful in capturing your players’ interest than a 
nifty piece of hardware.

There are three basic types of items that characters can come 
across: equipment, artifacts and super technology. All items are 
important in that they affect how a character deals with his

environment. Some items add extra dice to a character’s skills or 
special abilities, some make it easier to perform certain actions, 
and others allow characters to perform tasks that they other­
wise couldn’t do.

Equipment  is any commonly available item that characters 
are likely to encounter on a regular basis. Common devices in 
the Star Wars universe are items such as blasters, macrobinocu­
lars, medpacs, comlinks and most of the items in this equipment 
section. These items can be found virtually everywhere in the 
galaxy, and are easily recognized.

Artifacts  are   devices   that   are   uncommon,   rare,   or   even 
unique. In some cases, they are items of ancient, primitive tech ­
nology, or historical curiosities that are still in use by some peo­
ple (example: Wookiee bowcasters, which only Wookiees  use). 
Often   these   devices   are   ancient,   possess   seemingly   “mystic” 
qualities, have some historical significance, or are very powerful. 
A fine example is a Jedi lightsaber: it is an ancient and respected 
weapon, no longer in common use, and is normally not for sale 
at any price. Few people have ever seen a lightsaber up close. 
Another   artifact   would   be   the   Jedi   Holocron   from   the  Dark  
Empire  comic book series: it is a unique, priceless artifact, and 
contains ancient and powerful knowledge.

Super technology items are unique and very powerful items 
which represent remarkable advances in technology and are far 
beyond   the   reach   of   all   but   powerful   organizations   like   the 
Galactic Empire. They will be immensely expensive or not avail­
able at any price. Good examples of super technology include 
the superlaser on the Death Star, the World Devastators in the 
Dark Empire comic book series, or the Imperial cloaking devices 
and   Spaarti   cloning   cylinders   used   in   the   trilogy   of   Timothy 
Zahn’s Star Wars novels.

Depending upon circumstances, the definition of each classi­
fication could become blurred. Most characters might consider a 
certain   type  of   weapon   an   artifact,  but   if   they  visit  a   world 
where they are hand-forged and are found in common usage, 
the characters might find them affordable, readily accessible, or 
even receive them as gifts. 

CREATING NEW ARTIFACTS AND DEVICES

Since the fantastic devices of the  Star Wars  universe were 
part   of   the   essential   charm   of   the   movies,   gamemasters   will 
want   to   create   new   equipment,   artifacts   and   possibly   super 
technology items. This chapter can serve as a guide for creating 
balanced, interesting and exciting items for your games.

Introducing New Items

The Star Wars movies are full of gadgets that are mysterious 
and unique to us, but to the inhabitants of the Star Wars uni­
verse are very common items. Just as everybody on Earth knows 
what a hammer is and what it’s for, in the Star Wars universe, 
everyone is somewhat familiar with a “hydrospanner.” The intro­
duction of new equipment should be a relatively mundane affair 
— the characters purchase or find or are given the item and they 
are told how it operates or have to figure it out for themselves. 
Any character with a decent Mechanical or Technical attribute 
and experience with “modern” Star Wars technology should be 
able to figure out common equipment.

Artifacts are not familiar to most characters. Therefore, when 
such a device is introduced to the game, it is suggested that the 
device not be fully explained. Instead, the gamemaster should 
try to create a sense of mystery, allowing its powers and abilities 
to   be   discovered   over   time.   The   characters   should   be   under­
standably curious and even awed by some artifacts.

The introduction of super technology is almost always  the 
focus of a major, dramatic story. The superlaser technology of 
the Death Star was vitally important in Star Wars: A New Hope 
and Return of the Jedi. The Empire’s cloaking device prototypes 
and Spaarti cloning cylinders were central plot elements in the 
Timothy Zahn novels, and the World Devastators were essential 
to the plot of the Dark Empire comic book series.

Don’t Make the Devices Too Advanced

Beginning gamemasters are often tempted to introduce too 
many devices that are too powerful and lack any appropriate 
play balances. The biggest question you have to ask yourself is, 
“Why didn’t we see this in the movies?”

For example, you are tempted to create a new warship that is 
bigger, tougher, faster and more deadly than any other battle 
cruiser. Then, your players all ask the same question: “If this ship 
is so tough, why didn’t the Empire have a fleet of them in the 
movies (or the books or comics)?” This is easily solved by making 
the ship a new prototype that wasn’t widely available, or per­
haps it has a few design flaws that make it vulnerable to certain 
types of attacks, and thus it is only used when absolutely neces­
sary. Possibly, the ship was busy suppressing disorder on other 
worlds during the movies (it is a  big  galaxy, after all). Another 
option is to set your adventures after the movies, novels and 
comics and simply explain that the ship was introduced after 
the events in those stories.

Gamemasters have to think about the long-term implications 
of their new technological advances. If the gamemaster wants 
to introduce a way of easily tracking ships in hyperspace, this 
fundamentally  changes the nature of the  Star Wars  universe. 
The whole plot of The Empire Strikes Back was that if the Mil­
lennium Falcon  could jump to hyperspace it could escape the 
Imperial fleet. If it becomes easy to track ships in hyperspace, 
then there is no escape — the Empire can simply follow the Fal­
con until it is captured.

Another pitfall of this stage is the potential to over-inflate 
the   characters’   abilities.   If   the   device   makes   them   invincible, 
then  what’s   the   point  of   playing?   If   they   can   waltz   through 
encounters   unscathed   with   minimal   resistance,   the   game  just 
isn’t very exciting, and therefore isn’t Star Wars. So how can a 
gamemaster   combat   these   problems?   The   following  are   some 
hints to help you.

To maintain that  Star Wars  “feel” in terms of equipment is 
relatively simple. Chances are, the statistics you create for your 
devices should be equal to or lower than the statistics given for 
existing equipment.

If you do decide to give a device higher statistics or radically 
new abilities, the device should have a corresponding “play bal­
ance” — something that makes it less desirable. There are a few 
easy play balances:

• The new technology is very expensive.

•  The  new  technology  is   secret.  Only by  capturing  plans   will 
people be able to replicate it. This is even better if the new tech­
nology relies  on  experimental  parts  that  aren’t available,  and 

thus anyone attempting to use the new technology will have to 
spend a long time tracking down new parts or trying to dupli­
cate the experimental ones. 

• The new technology is bulky and unwieldy.

• The new technology consumes a lot of energy (like planetary 
shields) and therefore is very difficult to move.

• The new technology is unreliable.

• The new technology is only “better” under very specific kinds  
of circumstances, but is average or even below average in most 
other respects.

For example, if you create a hyperdrive even faster than the 
Millennium Falcon’s, a good balance is that there is the danger 
of a reactor core melt-down with each jump. The negative bal­
ances the positive and will make your players think very hard  
about using, or overusing the artifact or device.

When it comes to the hyperspace tracking system, it could be 
very expensive, bulky and consume a lot of power. It could be 
difficult to move and have a very limited range. Therefore, it 
would only be useful on a planet or a very large space station, 
and would be better for tracking incoming and outgoing ships 
at close range. This way, it’s not possible to be sure where a ship 
is going, and the idea of being able to escape by jumping into 
hyperspace is still possible.

Incremental “Leaps” in Technology

Another method of maintaining game balance is the use of 
incremental  “leaps”   in   technology.   These   minor   advances   in 
technology are easy to believe. For example, instead of a blaster 
that can get 50 shots out of a power pack, how about a more 
efficient blaster that gets 55? Or slightly more efficient hyper­
drives? 

These seemingly minor benefits could really aid the charac­
ters in a tight spot. The new blaster could help the characters 
outlast an enemy in a firefight, and a more efficient drive means 
fewer   refueling   stops,   more   available   cargo   space,   and   more 
power for shields, weapons or sensor equipment.

Even   if   the   enhancement   is   by   a   single   “pip”   or   a   slight 
increase in efficiency, it could have far reaching benefits that 
the players might not appreciate right away, but will wind up 
being thankful for later on.

Eric is the gamemaster, Bill and Dan are both brash pilots, 

confronted with some opposition.

Eric:  “The bounty hunters appear to have the drop on you. 
They have you pinned down behind some shipping crates and 
are blasting away. Obviously, they don’t want to take you alive. 
Now what?”

Dan:  “I shoot back, using those new blaster pistols of ours, 
the BlasTech Eliminator-7’s. They have that new, more efficient 
power pack, right? That’s what the salesman said.”

Bill:  “Hey, yeah, that’s right! Maybe we can blast these guys 
when they exhaust their weapons. We should have 5 extra shots 
that they don’t. Eric, we keep shooting at them and try to get 
them to drain their guns. OK?”
Eric: “Sounds like a plan...”

Remember Your Character’s Abilities

If you are planning on creating a piece of equipment for a 
specific character, keep in mind that character’s abilities. If you 
create a device that enhances Force skills for your young Jedi, 

everything  they   want   to  keep   them   happy.  Don’t 
give in to this temptation. Here’s why:

Eric: “Ok gang! You see four black-cloaked boun­
ty  hunters   leveling  their  blaster   rifles   at   you   and 
yelling at you to surrender. What do you do?”

Bill: “I guess I’ll use that surface-to-orbit comlink 

and call in a turbolaser strike from the star cruiser.”

Eric: (Rolling dice.) “FOOM! Got ’em.”
Dan: (Stifling yawn.) “This is boring...”

The problem with giving the characters too much 
equipment is that it leaves them without any chal­
lenges. If the outcome is never in doubt, there is no 
suspense,   and   consequently   very   little   entertain­
ment value. 

Don’t Skimp on the Villain’s Equipment

Give your characters a real fight! If they have a 
case of thermal detonators, give the bad guys some 
kind of defense against explosives. If the characters 
have a Mon Calamari Star Cruiser at their disposal, 

who   is   relatively   unskilled,   keep   in   mind   that   he   or   she   will 
probably not be this unskilled for long.

Keep the bonuses to the character fairly low, because as they 
advance in power due to normal adventuring, the device can 
lead to that character becoming virtually unstoppable. Trying to 
create opposition for an invincible character is terribly difficult. 
It is best to avoid this situation entirely rather than try to “fix” it 
later on.

You’re not really being stingy with the benefits; no matter 
what bonus they receive for using this equipment, the charac­
ters will still be slightly better off than they were before they 
received the equipment.

“Disposable” technology

Finally, a terrific way to alleviate both the problem of main­
taining   a  Star  Wars  feel   and   keeping   the   game   balanced   in 
terms of equipment is to make the item in question fairly tem­
porary.

A thermal detonator or grenade can only be used once and 
then it is gone. Why not use the same principle for really power­
ful equipment so its usage will be strongly curtailed? If you cre­
ate   a   new   hyperdrive   that   moves   twice   as   fast   as   the 
Millennium   Falcon’s,   but   burns   out   the   control   circuitry   and 
self-destructs when it is used more than once, that answers the 
question of “Why isn’t it in widespread use?”

The answer is pretty simple: it’s  impractical. It can bail the 
characters out of a jam once. After that, you won’t have to wor­
ry about the characters overusing the device.

Restricting Access

Using and giving out equipment, both new and old, requires 
careful consideration. If not properly rationed out, equipment 
can seriously unbalance an adventure.

One problem is that novice players want everything in exis­
tence. Your players may request to be equipped with anything 
from a thermal detonator to a Mon Calamari Star Cruiser. As a 
new   gamemaster,   you   may   feel  the   need   to  give   the  players

give their enemies a Star Destroyer.

Nothing will catch your players’ attention more than a really 
tough villain. In terms of equipment, if the characters are well-
equipped, their enemies should be better equipped. This isn’t so 
much robbing the players of victory as it is making them  earn 
victory. As long as the story itself is served, and the characters 
are   forced   to   rely   on   their   wits   and   skills   rather   than   their 
equipment, then your game is more likely to be a success. 

Eric:  “You see four bounty hunters, all wearing heavy black 
cloaks and hoods. They are leveling their blaster rifles at you and 
yelling at you to surrender. What do you do?”

Bill: (To Dan.) “Um... well, how about that last thermal deto­

nator?”

Dan:  “Sure.   (Rolls   dice.)   I   activate   the   thermal   detonator, 

count to three and heave it!”

Eric: (Rolling dice) “Good shot! It lands right in between the 

group of them and explodes as you dive for cover. Now what?” 

Dan: “Well, I’ll walk up to the bodies...”
Eric:  “Not so fast. The bounty hunters look pretty annoyed. 
The are brushing off the burning remains of those black cloaks, 
revealing   the   plasma-hardened   blast   armor   that   covers   them 
from head to toe. The armor itself is glowing faintly as it radi ­
ates the thermal detonator’s blast heat. A couple of the bounty 
hunters are chuckling evilly and taking steady aim again with 
their rifles. Now what?”

Dan: “We could try to shoot our way out …”
Bill: “I’ve got a bad feeling about this…”

As illustrated, the characters are being forced to rely on their 
brains rather than their hardware. Now there is challenge in the 
game and the story can proceed.

Make the Characters Really Work for Their Equipment

If  the characters require (or desire) a particularly powerful 
piece of technology, don’t just let them pop into the Star Wars 
equivalent of the local convenience store and purchase, steal or 
otherwise obtain it. Make it difficult for them.

The  quest  to  obtain   what   they   want,  instead  of  having  it 
handed to them, can lead to all sorts of interesting encounters. 
Of course, as gamemaster, you have to make sure that restrict­
ing equipment is logical. You can’t arbitrarily refuse the charac­
ters  a  blaster  if  everyone  else  can  get  one  easily.  But, if  the 
equipment  would  logically  be difficult  to get, then  you  have 
every right to make the characters struggle to get what they  
want.

For example, if the characters  in your game happen to be 
allied with the Rebel Alliance or New Republic, they may believe 
that if they requisition the equipment from their quartermaster 
they will automatically receive the hardware they want. Right? 
Wrong.   If   the   characters’   requests   are   too   much   for   you   to 
maintain game balance, don’t let them have the equipment! 

Fortunately, the Empire and Republic restrict the most inter­
esting equipment, like weapons, so there is a logical reason to 
restrict the characters’ access to weapons. In fact, many adven­
tures could be written about characters having to go steal or 
secretly purchase restricted equipment. Why give the characters 
thermal detonators when you can have the Alliance send the 
characters   to   steal   a   bunch   of   thermal   detonators   from   an 
Imperial ammo dump on a distant world?

Also,   situations   in   a   specific   adventure   may   allow   the 
gamemaster to restrict equipment. If the characters’ ship crash 
lands   on   a   frontier   world,   it’s   entirely   believable   that   some 
equipment   will   have   been   destroyed   and   the   characters   will 
probably   have   to   do   without   until   they   reach   “civilization” 
again. 

There are a number of ways to get around the problem of 
denying   the   characters   equipment   and   still   keep   the   players 
happy. The Alliance is in a state of war, so supplies are severely 
limited. If the characters are asking for major weaponry, they 
should be made aware that ordnance is needed elsewhere for 
another   unit   or   military   mission.   Or   that   the   quartermaster 
hasn’t received his shipment this month. Or that the Alliance ran 
out.

In the time of the New Republic, the new government has 
not  yet established shipping  routes  and connections, and has 
gone so far as to offer cargo runs to smugglers to get the ship­
ping of materials flowing again. The Empire has seriously cur­
tailed shipping, both by confiscating vessels and blowing them 
right out of space.

There are shortages and rationing everywhere, so this is an 
easy   way   for   you   as   gamemaster   to   overcome   outrageous 
requests for equipment. If the players still want the equipment, 
then you can have the Alliance or New Republic assign the play­
er characters the task of locating a source for the equipment as 
a subplot or even a major portion of your game.

If, on the other hand, your players are not allied with the 
Republic or Rebel Alliance, and are instead smugglers or bounty 
hunters, specialized equipment will probably be much more dif­
ficult to come by. Heavy weapons, personal firearms, explosives 
and such are all heavily regulated and licensed by everyone from 
the   Republic   and   the   Empire   to   individual   planetary   govern­
ments. If your players have planned some kind of mischief with 
heavy   ordnance,   they   may  wind   up  hunted   fugitives   (if  they 
aren’t already). Of course, your players will probably want the 
stuff anyway... so how can they get it?

There is always an outlet for equipment and other merchan­
dise. The manufacturers, often large industrial juggernauts like 
Sienar Fleet Systems or BlasTech, all have distribution and retail 
centers in major spaceports and cities to sell their standard legal 

equipment.   For   example,   the   characters   may   seek   starship 
engine components at a Sienar outlet, though they would have 
difficulty buying a blaster there.

Independent merchants can be found  everywhere, hawking 
everything from comlinks to starship engines, but they some­
times charge impressive mark-ups from the list prices.

If your players are looking for something really illegal, there’s 
always the black market (also known in galactic slang as “the 
Invisible Market.”) Powerful gangsters and petty thieves alike all 
need   an   outlet   for  their  goods   and  services,  and  more   often 
than   not,   they   cannot   just   set   up   shop   and   start   retailing.  
Instead, a rather extensive network of fences, corrupt govern­
ment officials, and rumors exists. The marketeers use this net­
work to sell whatever is available to whoever is willing to pay 
the Invisible Market’s astronomically inflated prices.

If your players have their hearts (or other appropriate inter­
nal organs...) set on finding a “hyperwave emissions enhance­
ment filter” and the only way currently available to obtain the 
device is to enter into a smuggling contract with Ploovo Two-
For-One, then you’ve got a fantastic subplot for your current 
game or even a starting point for an entire campaign. And all 
motivated by a solitary piece of equipment…

Eric: (As an alien merchant) “As you can see, noble sentients. 

Goods and services, have I! What seek you here, eh?”

Bill: “Well, we need some specialized navigation software for 

our navicomputer. You were, uh... recommended to us.”

Eric: (Suspiciously) “Recommended? By who?”
Dan:  “Uh... look, we’d  rather  not  go into  that. I’m sick  of 

being shot at. Do you have the software or not?”

Eric:  “Ah, but of course... and you have the 5,000 credits it 

will cost, am I correct?” 

Dan and Bill: (In unison) “FIVE THOUSAND?! Our whole com­

puter system didn’t cost that much!”

Eric:  “As you wish, gentle-beings. Plot your next hyperspace 

jump on an abacus. Good day...”

Bill: “Uh, wait a minute, can’t we deal here?”
Eric: “A favor you could do for me? Give you your software, I 

will, after you deliver package for me.”
Dan: “I guess so... what’s the cargo?”
Eric: “Trivial cargo of spice from Kessel. Nothing really impor­

tant.”

Bill: “I have a really bad feeling about this...”

Limit the Number of
Devices that the Characters Can Have

It’s common sense: the characters can only carry so much. 
Don’t give them such an abundance of equipment that it would 
take a fleet of Corellian bulk cruisers and a legion of Wookiees 
to move around.

There’s no way a Human can carry around a case of grenades 
and still  draw  and fire  his  blaster  accurately.  If  you  give  the 
characters  a case of thermal detonators, give some major die 
code penalties to the character carrying them.

Another method of limiting the devices is to  not  give them 
everything they ask for. If your players ask for a case of thermal 
detonators, tell them that there’s only two or three available. 
That way, they will be pleased to have some new “toys” but they 
will also have to be extremely judicious in their use. You will be 
satisfying the players’ hunger for new equipment while main­
taining game balance. 

THE CREATION PROCESS

Now that some of the basic concerns with device creation 
and use have been discussed, the following four step process 
can be used to create new equipment, artifacts and items of 
super technology. 

STEP ONE:
What Does the Device Do and How Does it Work?

This is the first logical step in developing a particular piece of 
hardware.   When   the   characters   come   across   a   new   piece   of 
equipment,   or   an   artifact,   they   are   going   to   want   to   know 
exactly what the device is and how it works. 

Equipment

If the device is a piece of equipment it is probably pretty 
mundane to the characters. While the players may find the idea 
of a restraining bolt for droids interesting, their characters have 
known it every day of their lives.

In creating new equipment, you must first know what specif­
ic function the item performs. Most pieces of equipment will be 
a futuristic version of an existing Earth device or will be practi­
cal extensions of the unique technology of the  Star Wars  uni­
verse. 

If you want to create new items of technology, look through 
an Earth equivalent catalog and extrapolate the technology. For 
example, if you want to run a game with an espionage theme, 
some kinds of equipment you may want to create for your char­
acters   could   be   listening   devices,   computer   probes,   remote 
detection gear, and stealth-enhancing equipment.

If the piece of equipment is similar to a real world piece of 
equipment,   it   is   normally   enough   to   tell   the   players   what   it 
does. If you tell your players that they have a jet pack, they will 
just assume they can strap it on and fly. Of course, since the 
technology is  Star Wars, it will be more advanced, smaller and 
more easily used than Earth technology.

When using equipment that doesn’t translate to Earth terms, 
consider similar fields and think of novel ways of addressing the 
same problems. For example droids are a combination of self-
aware computer, industrial machine and servant or worker. For 
suggestions on coming up with new types of droids, think of a 
type of job a specific droid could be built to accomplish.

For attachments, see what types of parts are available in that 
field (for example, medical droids have laser scalpels, anesthesia 
and medicine dispensers and all sorts of neat tools).

If the piece of equipment is something that doesn’t have a 

real world analogy, it may take a little more explanation.

Fusion Welder: The gamemaster, Eric, wants to give 
the player characters a torch for the adventure. Since 
this is a very common type of device in the real world 
and   the  Star   Wars  universe,   he   thinks   of   it   as   an 
advanced propane torch.

However,   instead   of   ignited   pressurized   gas,   the 
new   device   will   create   a   fusion   reaction   internally, 
focusing the energy out of the nozzle. It requires a 
small bit of blaster gas and uses small power cells only 
a couple of centimeters across.

Artifacts

Artifacts   should   provide   abilities   that   the   characters   don’t 
normally have access to or do a common task in a unique way. 
They can have any type of function, ranging from those similar 
to tools (such as causing damage like a weapon, or adding a few 
dice   to   a   certain   skill,   such   as   macrobinoculars   adding   to 
search). They can also provide capabilities and powers that no 
technological   equivalent   can   —   perhaps   an   artifact   gives   the 
characters   the   ability   to   read   minds,   or   gives   the   character 
instant mental access to the equivalent of a galactic encyclope­
dia.

An artifact doesn’t need to be explained. If technologically 
based, it might run on power cells. However, if the device is tru ­
ly alien, it might run on mental power or emanations in the 
Force. In fact, no one may know “how” it works, it just does. 

The   Codex:  Eric   wants   to   create   a   device   for   a 
young Jedi named Pann. Eric decides that this artifact 
will play an important role in his next adventure. Eric 
determines that the device is totally alien in origin, a 
mysterious and powerful artifact from a lost species. 
He decides to call it “The Codex.”

Since Pann the Jedi must be drawn to the device 
for storytelling purposes, it stands to reason that it is 
somehow linked to the Force. Eric brainstorms a bit 
and decides that the device is extremely powerful, and 
has a variety of functions in the hands of a Jedi. While 
he won’t determine all of the Codex’s abilities right 
now, he’ll settle on the basic functions a Jedi will be 
able to determine immediately:

• The device locates disturbances in the Force, leading 
(or possibly luring) the characters to trouble spots.

• The device can increase Force Skill die codes sub­
stantially, making a Jedi even more powerful.

The unit can be activated with a Very Easy control 
roll on the part of the user. As previously stated, the 
device   has   numerous   other   functions,   but   to   make 
sure Pann  doesn’t become  too  powerful  right  away, 
Eric decides that it will take much study for Pann to 
learn what other abilities the unit has. 

Super Technology

Super technology is simply a really interesting or advanced 
technological development. The superlaser and World Devasta­
tors show how powerful weapons can be; the Spaarti cloning 
cylinders allows the controller to make countless clones. Super 
technology should provide a completely new ability or be a very, 
very powerful version of an existing item.

Remember that super technology is not intended to fall into 
the hands of the characters. More often than not, super tech­
nology is more of a plot device than something that will actual­
ly be used. The threat of the Death Star was more than enough 
to make it effective.

Nanogene Droids:  The gamemaster wants to give 
the   villain   of   his   adventure   a   powerful   and   unique 
weapon. He decides on nanogene droids highly experi­
mental microscopic machines that affect the cells of 
living organisms. When the droids are injected into a

being, they can somehow rewrite the genetic code of 
the being, causing it to change to whatever pattern 
was programmed into the nanogene droids. With this 
device the villain plans on converting the population 
of a planet into an army of zombie-like mutated war­
riors.   This   certainly  has   the   horrific  punch   of   other 
super technology weapons. 

STEP TWO:
What Does the Device Look Like?

Visual details are extremely important in the Star Wars uni­
verse. The items of technology are memorable and distinct: X-
wings, TIE fighters, AT-AT Walkers, Star Destroyers, stormtroop­
ers and droids created a lasting impression. In short, everything 
is instantly recognizable.

When determining what your particular piece of equipment 
looks like, not only are you making it easily identifiable to your 
players, you will personally have a better “feel” for the device 
and what it does.

When determining appearance, don’t forget the other senses. 
Part of the unique charm of a lightsaber is the hum its blade 
gives off. Don’t forget to make notes regarding sound or touch 
(does it pulse, or does it feel warm or cold or slimy?). When the 
device is used, is there a unique odor (for example, when using a 
plasma torch, the odor of the charred metal should be promi­
nent). Using all of this sensory data enhances the “realness” of 
the device. 

Equipment

The appearance of equipment is important. Everyone knows 
what a blaster or a comlink looks like. When introducing very  
common, mass  produced items  of technology, they should fit 
into the cohesive “look” of the Star Wars universe.

Also, Star Wars is a lived-in universe, so items of technology 
are often dirty, scratched, banged up and coated in several lay­
ers of paint. By adding these details, you give every item and 
location a sense of “real worldness” because it implies that the 
device existed before the present adventure and probably will 
exist after the adventure is finished. 

Fusion Welder: The fusion welder will look a lot like 
an Earth propane torch. He decides that the device is a 
metal cylinder, with a small curved nozzle at one end, 
where the fusion welder’s energy beam is emitted. The 
device   has   a   small   “on-off”   switch   on   its   base.   An 
adjustment   knob   that   controls   the   strength   of   the 
beam is located at the top of the cylinder, near the 
emitter nozzle. The top of the cylinder also has a valve 
where blaster gas is added to the fuel chamber, as well 
as   a   compartment   for   the   very   small   power   cells. 
Overall, it is about the size of a large blaster pistol. It 
weighs about four kilograms. bulky but not heavy.

Artifacts

Artifacts are supposed to suggest mystery and alien qualities, 
so most artifacts should appear distinctly different from com­
mon  equipment. Lightsabers and Wookiee bowcasters do look 
something like other forms of equipment, but they don’t quite 
fit in — they suggest a different time or a different society.

Artifacts that are designed by aliens will clearly look alien 
and novel. They might look more organic, or have ornate, Goth­

ic-style curves. The artifacts might have exposed internal parts, 
so the device appears more like a superstructure with parts ran­
domly added on. The artifacts might be elaborately decorated or 
colored in unusual ways. It might give off an unusual “aura” so 
that anyone near it feels inexplicably uncomfortable. 

The  Codex:  After some thought Eric decides that 
the device is a small, metallic pyramid, no larger than 
a grapefruit. He adds that the Codex is muted gold in 
color and covered with strange engravings in flowing, 
alien   script.   Tiny   crystals   dot   its   surface   in   strange 
patterns. It can easily be held in one hand, and glows 
and hums when in use.

Super Technology

Super technology is often large and dramatic. What makes 
the Death Star intimidating is its size. Normally, super technolo­
gy should look exotic. Super technology will still clearly be rec­
ognizable as Star Wars, but it still must look different enough to 
be distinguishable from ordinary items. 

Nanogene Droids: Nanogene droids are only visible 
under a microscope. However, how they affect some­
one is  noticeable  people who  are being altered will 
seem to become more and more distracted from the 
world around them. After a few days of carrying the 
droids,   they   will   slip   into   a   coma   and   no   known 
medicine will bring them out of it. Anyone who does a 
medical scan of the victim will be able to determine 
that their body functions and genetic code are chang­
ing, but why isn’t known. The final stage of the victim 
can be whatever is programmed into the droids, but 
for horrific effect we’ll decide that the person slowly 
changes into a horrible, slobbering monster, hideous 
to behold. 

STEP THREE:
What is the Device’s Background or History?

This is probably the easiest step in the process, and in many 
cases is really very brief. Some devices are going to have very 
plain histories that aren’t pertinent to the game. For example, 
chances are your players won’t care who invented bacta tanks. 

However,   if   the   device’s   history   is   important   to   the   story, 
then the background does matter. A sense of mystery is good for 
unfamiliar alien devices and artifacts and will help you keep the 
players on their toes. If you invent a very powerful artifact and 
describe its history as “No one knows where it came from,” the 
mystery of the device increases. 

Equipment

Most of the time, the history of equipment won’t really mat­
ter to the game. Of course, some items will be of interest. For 
example, in Dark Force Rising, it is learned that the Katana fleet 
was slave-rigged (all of the ships were rigged into a single huge 
computer operating system). This greatly reduced the number of 
support crew  on this vessels, making slave-rigged ships much 
more practical than non-slave-rigged ships  in theory. However, 
the crew of the  Katana, infected with a hive virus, went crazy 
and the whole fleet jumped into hyperspace, never to be seen 
again. This explains why droids and large crews are used on star­
ships in the Star Wars universe rather than using computers.

Fusion Welder:  This can be as simple as “common 
technology, available almost everywhere. It has been 
around for a long time.”

Artifacts

Artifacts are more interesting when they are mysterious. The 
Jedi Holocron is intriguing because we don’t know its history. If 
the character doesn’t know all the answers, he might be inclined 
to investigate further and find out the real story. Or, the history 
of the device might come back to haunt the character — what if 
the ancestor of the creator of the artifact comes looking for the 
artifact and is willing to kill for it?

Sometimes   artifacts   are   tied   into   prophecies,   great   myths 
from   history   and   other   lore   of   the   Star   Wars  universe.   A 
lightsaber is interesting in its own right, but if the character 
receives   the   lightsaber   wielded   by   one   of   the   original   Jedi 
Knights during the founding of the Old Republic, the artifact 
becomes much more valuable and interesting. 

The Codex: Eric decides the Codex was created by a 
long extinct species called the Cthol. The Cthol were 
extremely interested in the sciences, and had managed 
to develop an instrument capable of quantifying and 
measuring the Force, and even, in the right hands, of 
manipulating it. It was built mainly out of scientific 
curiosity, as the Cthol had few ambitions to use the 
Force for gain; they simply wanted to understand it.

Unfortunately, the device’s activation didn’t escape 
the notice of Halbret, a Dark Jedi who destroyed the 
Cthol and stole the device, using it to enslave a num­
ber of worlds. Halbret was himself destroyed by the 
Jedi Knights in a fierce space battle, and the device 
was lost in space, where the characters will unwitting­
ly stumble across it.

Super Technology

Super technology is normally “invented” by a person or group 
of people working in secret. The background of a piece of super 
technology can be mysterious and filled with rumor or well doc­

umented, depending upon the needs of the story. For example, 
we didn’t need to know a lot about the history of the Death 
Star for Star Wars: A New Hope. However, as we learned more 
about the Star Wars universe, it was revealed that Admiral Ack­
bar had served as Grand Moff Tarkin’s slave while Tarkin was 
overseeing construction of the Death Star. Ackbar helped the 
Rebel Alliance learn of this fearsome super weapon and steal the 
plans to it. These plans, in turn, were given to Princess Leia, who 
had to stop at Tatooine to get General Obi-Wan Kenobi...

Nanogene Droids: The nanogene droid concept was 
first invented long ago, but it had never been used to 
much effect. The villain in the adventure, Uris, took an 
interest in the subject, and gathered a team of talent­
ed but unscrupulous nanogene droid scientists.

Bankrolling experiments, the scientists took nearly 
a year to perfect the nanogene droid technology, and 
several more years were required to get the droids to 
alter   genetic   codes   with   any   reasonable   amount   of 
control. 

However by that time, Uris’ delusions of grandeur 
had   blossomed,   and   he   convinced   himself   that   he 
would be able to assemble an army and carve out his 
own empire.

He is ready to release the first batch of nanogenes 

on the unsuspecting population of Voorsbain. 

STEP FOUR:
Determining the Device’s Game Statistics

This is arguably the most difficult and challenging part of 
developing new equipment. The pitfalls are numerous and diffi­
cult to avoid. By using the hints presented in the earlier section 
of   this   chapter,   you   should   be   able   to   consider   the   factors 
involved in these stats and design balanced devices.

By making a device bigger, more expensive, more difficult to 
use or harder to get, you can still introduce a better piece of 
technology while not destroying play balance or fundamentally 
altering the technology of the universe.

Equipment

Performance should be comparable to other types of equip­
ment. You must also determine how effective the device is. For 
weapons,   aside   from   basic   damage,   you   need   to   determine 
weapon ranges, weight or size (is it bulky and difficult to use?), 
ammo, any special settings and all of the other factors the make 
one piece of equipment different from others.

You must also set a price for the equipment. Equipment will 
normally be priced near comparable types of equipment. A new 
blaster pistol, if it’s better than a standard pistol, will cost more. 
An   new   type   of   medpac   that   is   mediocre   will   probably   cost 
about the same as the standard ones.

Of course, the laws of economics will figure into the cost as 
well. There are millions of different factors that can alter the 
price of a product, such as local supply and demand, whether 
the company is intentionally pricing its products low in order to 
get a share of the market, if the local government adds any tax­
es onto the price of goods and so forth. In other words, “stan­
dard” prices are mere benchmarks, and can change dramatically 
from location to location.

Fusion Welder: Eric must determine basically what 
the device can do in game terms. Eric decides that his 
“fusion welder” is powered by an internal power cell 
that can be used for two hours, requiring six hours of 
recharging from a standard power terminal.

If  used  in  combat,  (which   would  be  highly  awk­
ward, as the device is heavy and unwieldy) the fusion 
welder does 4D damage. Its plasma beam can be up to 
3   meters   long,   but   since   it’s   not   supposed   to   be   a 
weapon, it is Difficult to hit with. It also is more like a 
melee weapon, so it would use the melee combat skill, 
if any weapon other than another fusion welder or 
lightsaber   (or   a   force   field)   is   used   to   parry   it,  the 
fusion welder automatically does damage to the other 
weapon.

Any minor details can be added later or fleshed out 
as Eric sees fit in the course of his game, but other­
wise, he has created a fairly easy-to-define common 
device that a character would be likely to encounter 
in the course of his game.

Artifacts

Artifacts normally have elaborate or unusual game statistics. 
Also, a lot of abilities can remain undiscovered for a long time, 
so that the gamemaster doesn’t have to completely detail the 
device when it is created. 

The   Codex:  Eric has decided to assign the device 

the following special abilities:

• +2D to all Force skills the Jedi character knows while 
the   Jedi   possesses   the   Codex.   The   Codex   strongly 
enhances  the  Jedi’s  abilities, but  the  character  does 
not receive extra Force powers. If the Jedi isn’t in con­
tact with the Codex, the added skill dice are lost. 

•   “Force   Detection.”   The   Codex   will   automatically 
locate galactic-scale disturbances in the Force, such as 
the   destruction   of   Alderaan   or   the   death   of   Darth 
Vader. The possessor of the Codex will know what has 
happened, but will not know the circumstances of the 
event.   For  example,   the   character  would  know   that 
Alderaan had been destroyed, but not how. The char­
acter would know that Darth Vader had died some­
where near Endor, but not how or why or by whom. 
More minor disturbances can be actively sought using 
the adjusted sense Force skill.

Basically, the device has statistics now, but there is 
a problem with game balance. The device makes Pann 
too powerful, too quickly. Eric decides to add some 
limitations:

•   Characters   who   use   the   Codex   more   than   three 
rounds in a day are far more sensitive to the Force, 
and are thus more susceptible to the Dark Side of the 
Force. A Jedi character who commits any kind of vio­
lence   while   using   the   Codex   beyond   these   three 
rounds gains  two  Dark Side points. In this case, vio­
lence is not defined in purely physical terms; mental 
cruelty and verbal abuse are also considered “tainted” 
actions for a Jedi using the Codex. The Jedi character

must be very cautious when using the Codex. If his 
words, thoughts, deeds or emotions are at all negative, 
the Jedi is in real danger.

• The device sends large “shock waves” through the 
Force when used. When using Codex-enhanced Force 
skills, other characters with the sense skill can locate a 
user of the Codex as far away as 100 light years (pos­
sibly more).

• The device is very old and easily broken. If dropped, 
shot, or otherwise handled roughly, the Codex has a 
Strength  of 1D to resist damage. If damaged in any­
way, the Codex will shatter and be beyond repair.

Eric   has   created   a   balanced   artifact   for  his  Star 
Wars  game. The Codex has major advantages, but it 
also has limitations, allowing the device to be useful, 
but   not   omnipotent.   Pann   will   now   have   to   think 
twice about using the device frequently. 

Super Technology

Super technology will normally have super game attributes. 
The devices are typically very powerful, but will practically have 
to have limitations. 

Nanogene Droids:  When a nanogene droid comes 
into contact with a person, it tries to inject itself into  
their internal system. The character must make a Dif­
ficult  stamina  roll:   if   successful,   the   character’s 
immune system has eliminated the nanogenes. If the 
roll fails, the character is infected. An infected charac­
ter will infect any other individual he or she is in con­
tact with, or within two meters of, for more than five 
minutes.

For   the   first   three   days,   the   character   feels   no 
effects. After that, the character must make a Moder­
ate willpower roll when asked to perform any mental 
activity that requires a Difficult total. If the character 
fails the roll, the character is too distracted to con­
centrate.   The   nanogene’s   effects   are   being   felt.   If 
examined by a doctor, the doctor needs to make a Dif­
ficult  medicine  roll   to   realize   that   the   character’s 
genetic code is being rewritten.

For the fourth through the tenth day, the character 
suffers   a   −2D   penalty   to   all   actions   except   rolling 
Strength to resist damage in combat. The same penal­
ty applies to mental activity.

At the end of the tenth day, the character must 
make a Moderate stamina roll not to fall into a coma 
each day until the character succumbs to the nano­
gene. At this time, a doctor needs to only make an 
Easy  medicine  total   to   realize   that   the   character’s 
genetic code is being rewritten.

If   the   nanogene’s   effects   are   detected,   a   Heroic 
medicine  total   is   necessary   to   cure   the   character 
unless   specially   designed   medicines   are   created 
(gamemaster will have to determine specific rules).

After  15 days  in  a  coma,  the  character is  trans-
formed into a mindless zombie. At this point, there is 
no known cure for the nanogene.

CHAPTER NINETEEN

19 DROIDS

We droids are mechanical devices, often capa­
ble   of   intelligent   and   creative   thought.   Droid-
types range from simple units that can only fol­
low basic commands, to highly developed units  
capable of translating millions of languages or  
assisting in the piloting of a starship.

Higher   function   droids   like   me   are   pro­
grammed with personalities, and are capable of  
acting   independently   and   making   decisions;  
some   droids   even   seem   to   have   emotions.   In  
short, we are an electronic form of life.

Most people consider droids as little more  
than tools, though I’m not convinced that is  
the   case.   Anyone   who’s   met   Luke   Sky­
walker’s   astromech   droid   or   Rogue  
Squadron’s   protocol   droid   would   proba­
bly agree with me. Many droids  
—   if   treated   with   a   little   care  
and respect — can seem as alive  
as   you.   Whether   or   not   we   con­
structs can truly be called “alive” is not for me  
to   say...   I   simply   refuse   to   be   treated   as   an  
inferior, as something less than a sentient life,  
just because I’m different.

If   you   do   treat   droids   as   non-lifeforms,  
you’d   be   no   better   than   the   Imperials   you’re  
fighting.   But   perhaps  you   think   I  am  waxing  
far too philosophical for a droid.

So lets talk about what you came here for...  

on to your first lesson on droids.

DROIDS IN THE GALAXY

Droids are one of the fundamental technologies of the gal­
axy.   They   are  intelligent  automatons   programmed   to  perform 
very specific functions. Droids are often used for tasks which are 
too complex, dangerous or even dull for organic beings. Droids 
may be programmed to excel at one or two specific types of 
functions at the expense of having the versatility of organics. 
Due   to   their   highly-developed   logic   circuits,   droids   lack   the 
intuitive   and  associative  capabilities   of  many  organic   species. 
Droids,   in   addition   to   high   intelligence   and   the   capacity   for 
learning, are normally programmed to exhibit a specific person­
ality in order to make them more palatable to organics.

Droids   take  a   variety   of  forms,   from  aesthetically  pleasing 
humanoid shapes to the stark functionality of an astromech or 
probe droid. Many droids  have normal speech  capabilities  for 
easy communication with other beings, although some are lim­
ited to high-density electronic languages that only other droids 
can interpret with any ease.

Droids are often classified by function:

• First Degree Droids:  Usually utilitarian in disposition, droids 
of this class are programmed with the physical sciences, medical 
sciences, or mathematics in mind. First degree droids are usually 
teamed up with organic counterparts to facilitate the comple­
tion of any specific task. The 2-1B surgical droid is an example 
of a first degree droid.

•   Second   Degree   Droids:  This   type   of   droid   is   frequently 
designed   for   functionality   over   aesthetics.   A   second   degree 
unit’s   ability   is   often   overlooked   by   the   uninformed,   simply 
because of the droid’s physical appearance. The lack of advanced 
personality programming on many models adds to this common 
misconception. Second degree droids are programmed for envi­
ronmental, engineering, and technical duties as well as applied 
sciences. Astromech droids — such as the famed R2-series — are 
second degree droids.

• Third Degree Droids:  The most common models to be seen 
with organic beings are third degree droids. They are designed 
and programmed with the social sciences in mind, specializing in 
protocol, translation, organic relations, teaching, diplomatic, and 
other functions that put them in regular contact with organics. 
As such, these droids tend to be physically designed in the mold 
of their makers, or the manufacturer’s intended customer base. 
Protocol units like the 3PO and Siak-series are classified as third 
degree droids.

• Fourth Degree Droids: Such units are illegal in most systems. 
Fourth   degree   droids   are   designed   for   military   and   security 
operations.   After   several   accidents   involving   the   design   and 
manufacture of these “mechanical soldiers,” the use of fourth 
degree   droids   was   prohibited,   except   for   certain   models 
designed   for   legitimate   military   use.   Although   publicly 
denouncing   the   use   of   lethal   droids   for   any   operation,   the 
Empire (as well as several underworld organizations) use fourth 
degree droids in an assassin capacity. Defense droids, like the G-
2RD, are fourth degree droids.

• Fifth Degree Droids:  Similar to primitive robotic units, fifth 
degree droids are typically programmed for menial duties such 
as simple lifting, mining, salvage, transportation, sanitation and 
waste   control.   Fifth   degree   droids   generally   perform   tasks 
deemed unfit or impossible for organic life. This class of droid is 
seldom equipped with any advanced knowledge processors, save 

for those that are required to perform an intended task. Fifth 
degree   droids   are   the   most   common   (and   most   affordable) 
found throughout the galaxy. The BLX-series labor unit is but 
one of the many fifth degree droids found throughout the gal­
axy.

ROLEPLAYING DROIDS

Generating a droid player character in  The Star Wars Role­
playing   Game  differs   greatly   from   creating   an   “organic,”   or 
“normal” player character. In addition to using a completely dif­
ferent set of character generation rules, players who decide to 
portray a droid have to take into account a different form of 
“living” in the Star Wars universe.

Creating a Template for a New Droid Model

Like all player characters, starting droid characters begin with 
a total of 25D. The major difference is that organic characters 
divide these dice between attributes and skills, whereas a droid 
character breaks these dice down between attributes, skills, and 
attachments.   Organic  characters   generally   have   18D   for  their 
attributes, leaving 7D for allocation to skills. Droids do not have  
this limitation. They are not subject to species’ minimums and 
maximums like organics (though they are subject to the current 
state of technology). In the Classic Star Wars time frame, tech­
nology   allows   a   droid   no   more   than   13D   in   any   particular 
attribute, with a minimum of 0D.

Because of this, it becomes amazingly simple to create a new 
droid type to use as a character template. Simply divide the 25D 
between the droid’s attributes, skills, and attachments (equip­
ment   that   provides   the   droid   with   a   permanent   skill   bonus). 
Consult with your gamemaster during this process, as creating a 
character in this manner is much more collaborative than during 
the generation of an organic character. Talk with the gamemas­
ter about what your droid’s Move rating should be, what equip­
ment  it   has   installed   and  other   such   considerations.   When   a 
consensus is reached, the droid is effectively created.

Alternately, your gamemaster may allot you a credit limit and 
have   you   use   the   droid   creation/modification   rules   from   the 
previous chapter. Usually, the cost of creating a droid suitable 
for a player character is between 3,000 and 5,000 credits.

Optional Rule: Basing a
Character Template Off an Existing Droid

When modifying an existing droid for use as a player charac­
ter,   character   generation   becomes   more   complex.   There   are 
some droids that are simply not suited for use as a player char­
acter (large units like logging droids or the construction droids 
from Coruscant, for example). The first thing you should do if 
you choose to play an existing droid type is to select a “stock” 
droid you like. (These droids can come from the listings in this 
volume, or any other source.) All of the droids listed in this book 
are considered “stock” — they have not been modified in any 
way and are listed as they would be if purchased new. Count up 
the dice the new droid has allocated to attributes, skills, and 
attachments. Make sure to ignore any dice the droid receives 
from special abilities or story factors, as these usually only come 
into play at character creation, and are not counted in the char­
acters standard 25D. For instance, the droid  might have a spe­
cial ability granting it any one Mechanical skill at 3D. Extra dice 
given in this manner do not count towards the droid’s 25D.

If   the   droid   has   exactly   25D   in   its   attributes,   skills   and 
attachments, it is ready to be run as a player character; just 
copy down the droid on apiece of paper and (as far as game 
rules are concerned) that character is ready to go.

If the droid model you wish to play has less than 25D total, 
you can add the difference with “Build Dice.” Figure out what 
your “build dice” are by subtracting the total dice from the droid 
you want to play from 25. The value you come up with is your 
build dice, which can be allocated to skills, and attachments, not 
at tributes.

Example: Dave wants to play a Rim Securities’ K4-
series security droid. The droid has a total of 20D in 
attributes,   skills,   and   attachments.   In   this   case   the 
Dave’s droid has 5D of “build dice.” (25D minus the 
20D listed in the template = 5D still available for skills 
and  attachments.) Dave can  add  these  5D of  “build 
dice” to the skills and attachments to his character. 
Remember,   Dave   can’t   spend   these   “build   dice”   on 
improving attributes.

reason   for   having   the   skill.   For   example,   there   are   very   few 
astromech droids that can accurately fire a blaster, and fewer 
still that would actually want to. Without an adequate reason 
for the droid to possess such a skill (it has been specially com­
missioned with illegal software by a Black Sun Vigo, for exam­
ple) the gamemaster may disallow it.

DROID CHARACTER DEVELOPMENT

Unlike  an  organic character,  droids  come  off the assembly 
line prefabricated to be identical in almost every way. They pos­
sess the same skills and knowledge, the same equipment and 
attachments, and look exactly alike (save for their paint jobs). 
Each   droid   of   the   same   model   comes   pre-equipped   with   an 
identical personality matrix, though these can change over time, 
with experience and programming. Where an organic character 
has learned her skills through schooling and life experience, a 
droid  is   programmed  with   necessary  knowledge.   Consider  the 
following   topics   when   determining   a   droid   character’s   back­
ground and behavior:

Adding Skills

Name/Designation

The first thing you’ll want to do after creating the “rules” 
portion  of  your  character  is  to come up  with  a name for it. 
Droid names are generally made up of a combination of num­
bers and letters (C-3PO, FX-7, EV99, and so forth). These desig­
nations are not unlike serial numbers, and they often include 
the droid’s  model  number as well as defining characters that 
separate the droid from others of its class.

Most droid names include the unit’s model number; R2-D2 is 
an Industrial Automaton R2 astromech unit. Most other R2 units 
have   the   characters   “R2”   somewhere   in   their   names,   as   well 
though they are not always pronounced. There are some compa­
nies that use words or symbols as a model designation, though 
these   cases   are   rare   (the   Verpine   Siak-series   is   one   such 
example). Often, owners will spell out the droid’s  designation 

Unlike a “normal” character, droids can spend more than 2D 
on improving a skill during character creation. In fact, a new 
droid character can begin play with a skill that is up to 4D above 
the governing attribute. In addition, droid characters taken from 
existing models start with skills already integrated into the droid 
type.   Many   droids   already   have   at   least   4D   above   a   specific 
attribute in some skills and such skills can not be improved at  
the time of character creation.

Example:  Dave’s   K4   droid   has   a  Dexterity  of   3D 
and   comes   off   the   assembly   line   with  blaster  7D, 
dodge 8D, and running 4D. Because both blaster and 
dodge  are   already   4D   or   more   above   the   ruling 
attribute (in this case  Dexterity), Dave may not allo­
cate any of his 5D of “build dice” to those skills. 
Because running is only 1D above Dexterity, Dave 
may add up to 3D to improve that skill.

At the time of  character creation only  the player 
may use his build dice to give the droid skills that it 
didn’t receive when it was constructed without shelling 
out credits. Like an organic character, these skills start 
at the same die code as the governing attribute. How­
ever the player may allocate up to 4D in any one skill. 
The player should consider what skills the droid should 
have in addition to what it comes with. Is the droid 
designed   for   a   specific   application?   Does   its   current 
skill package serve that purpose? The player should also 
select skills appropriate to what he or she intends to 
use the droid for; just because the droid is designed as 
an accounting unit doesn’t mean the owner will use it 
for   its   intended   purpose.   Is   the   droid   destined   for 
industrial intrigue or sabotage? Will it assist a smuggler 
during a sophisticated confidence scam? Or will it wind 
up   providing   maintenance   assistance   or   astrogation 
backup aboard a freighter?

During this process, the gamemaster should be kept 
apprised of the droid’s development. Gamemasters may 
wish  to  veto the use  of  certain  skills  on new  droids 
unless the player can come up with an extremely good 

phonetically, giving the droid a more “organic” name (“MD-18” 
becomes   “Emdee-Oneight,”   for   example).   Other   owners   have 
ignored the droid’s name altogether, opting for a nickname of 
some sort. “Whistler” and “Mynock” are examples of this.

When choosing a name for your droid, take these things into 
account. There is no limit to the number of digits in a droid’s 
designation; there could very well be a 3PO unit with a designa­
tion of Q32H-3PO-9ST somewhere in the galaxy. Usually, organ­
ics shorten longer names for ease of reference (so the example 
above could simply be referred to as “Kyu-three” or “Ohnine”).

Manufacture/Design

Of course, most of a droid character’s traits will come straight 
from the mold from which it was formed. Whether the droid 
was of a type depicted in this book or was created from scratch, 
someone built it. (In general, the droid’s manufacturer is found 
in the unit’s game stats.) Consider the manufacturing company’s 
policies   regarding   politics,   society,   the   military,   and   so   forth. 
How do those views affect the character’s basic programming? 
While the very nature of a personality matrix allows for learning 
and expansion on many levels, the beings who built the player 
character droid would instinctively leave traces of their person­
alities behind in the programming.

Remember   to  consider   the  reason   it  was   built  in   the  first 
place. No matter how old the droid is, or how much the droid’s  
experiences and adventures may have affected its development, 
there will always be at least traces of the primary programming 
left  over.   An   agricultural   droid  may,   during  the  course  of   its 
existence, learn to fire a blaster, fly a speeder, or speak several 
languages. But the fact remains that it is still an agricultural  
droid. Keep this in mind when developing a droid player charac­
ter. A battered and adventurous cook-droid may act like a brash 
pilot (but it will still talk about food preparation a great deal).

Activation

Droids aren’t “born,” per se; they are “activated.” When acti­
vation   occurs,  the droid’s  knowledge  and personality  are  also 
activated. However, an older droid will have either been modi­
fied by a previous owner (or, in some cases, actually modified 
itself) over a long enough period of time. The time a droid play­
er   character   has   been   activated   can   dramatically   affect   the 
droid’s behavior.

Simulated Emotions

Droids are often programmed to react in very specific ways to 
their environment. Often, this programming is extremely sophis­
ticated, resembling actual emotions a great deal. The emotional 
response programming a droid receives is related directly to its 
intended function. For instance, it is sometimes beneficial for an 
assassin   droid  to  display   aggression   (or  even   outright  anger), 
whereas a medical unit would most likely display compassion to 
facilitate interaction with organics under its care. These feelings 
are programmed into the unit at the factory, though the droid 
may develop and expand on the core emotional programming.

It is up to the player to determine what emotional responses 
a   droid   character   possesses.   Base   this   on   the   unit’s   primary 
design,   and   take   into   account   responses   the   droid   may   have 
learned since it was activated. If, for example, you are playing a 
protocol droid who has somehow developed a very aggressive 
attitude   and   carries   a   big   gun,   decide   where   it   learned   to 
respond to situations in that manner. Was it intentionally pro-

grammed that way by someone? Or has its previous experiences 
molded the droids reactions? Perhaps the central programming 
core from an assassin droid was placed into the chassis of a pro­
tocol droid to avoid detection. Was this done by the owner, or 
was it the act of a free-thinking droid that wanted to avoid 
destruction? Thinking about the reasons why a droid character 
reacts the way it does helps make that character more convinc­
ing (and more fun to play).

Droid Character Traits

The following is a list of sample traits that a droid character 
may possess. They are intended only to spark some of the ques­
tions suggested in this chapter: why would a droid exhibit these 
behaviors? Players and gamemasters are encouraged to use this 
list   as   a   starting   point   for   creating   more   entertaining   droid 
characters, though this list is by no means exhaustive.

•   Argumentative:  No   matter   what   is   being   discussed,   the 
droid will constantly offer an “alternative viewpoint.” Typically, 
these “alternatives” are little more than an excuse to argue.

• Backup personality:  A previous owner hardwired a “back­
up” personality into the droid’s “brain.” When subjected to spe­
cific stimuli (such as damage, a code phrase, a transmission on a 
particular   comm   frequency)   the   droid’s   alternate   personality 
becomes evident. This personality can be very similar to (or com­
pletely different than) the droid’s main behavioral matrix.

• Center of conversation: The droid always tries to work its 
way into a conversation, dominating the exchange with point­
less anecdotes or stories.

• Curious: The droid has a strong sense of curiosity, constant­

ly seeking answers to any questions that may puzzle it.

•   Exaggerates:  When asked to describe something that it 
witnessed,   the   droid   invariably   inflates   the   specifics   of   the 
account (or its role in the event).

• Glitch:  The droid has a minor malfunction that has stub­
bornly   resisted   all   diagnostic   and   repair   attempts.   (This   trait 
would be more common to older droids.) For example, a proto­
col   droid’s   vocabulator   has   somehow   been   damaged   and   the 
droid’s voice sounds peculiar (a drawl, a strange accent, a “nasal” 
quality to its speech).

• Low self-esteem: The droid is convinced that it has some­
how failed its primary function. Perhaps the droid strives harder 
to serve an organic master (in order to “atone” for the perceived 
failure); conversely, the droid feels that it no longer has worth 
and   does   not   really   try   and   operate   at   peak   efficiency   any 
longer (by not using Character Points during skill rolls).

• No self-confidence: The droid is convinced that its abilities 

are not equal to a given task. 

• Obnoxious:  The droid has a tendency to say “the wrong 

thing at the wrong time” and is often regarded as unpleasant.

• Obsequious: The droid fawns over those it deems its “bet­
ters” (typically organic owners), constantly seeking their favor 
and approval.

• Obsessive tendencies:  The droid has an annoying, obses­
sive quirk (such as a need to clean its surroundings, or sort fairly 
unimportant files or datawork). Sometimes this obsession with 
minor   tasks   prevents   the   droid   from   adequately   performing 
more important ones.

• Paranoia:  The droid is convinced that it has some sort of 

enemy, and is constantly worried that it is in danger.

•   Pompous:  The   droid   believes   it   is   “better”   than   other 
mechanicals (or organics; player’s choice) and constantly makes 
disparaging remarks when such beings are encountered.

• Sullen: The droid is very reluctant to speak or interact with 
other organics. Questions to such a droid must be very specific, 
as the unit typically responds with as vague an answer as possi­
ble.

• Talkative: The droid simply can not stop speaking at inap­

propriate times.

History

The past is as important to a droid character as it is to an 
organic one — even more so in some cases. Because many droids 
are several decades old, it may have been through many events 
that other characters have never experienced. By the time Artoo 
and Threepio came to be in the employ of the Lars family, they 
had already been through many adventures with other owners. 
The  following  guidelines  can  also  help to  “flesh  out”   a  droid 
character:

Previous Owners

Depending on the age of the droid, it is quite possible that it 
has served a number of masters, all with their own personalities 
and agendas. Deciding who these owners were can round out 
the gaming experience by giving the droid a history from which 
it has learned (and modified its personality). Depending on the 
occupation of a previous owner (and how the owner used the 
droid’s services) the droid may have had many adventures prior 
to the events of its current campaign. Remember when coming 
up with previous owners that they didn’t necessarily purchase 
the droid, or use it for what it was specifically programmed for. 

(Even a protocol droid can get a job working on a moisture 
farm simply because it speaks Bocce.) You can use the following 
character hooks as they are or as a groundwork from which to 
create your own ideas:

•   A   former   owner   was   a   government   official   of   some   sort: 
Imperial, Old Republic, or possibly a smaller system or planetary 
official. Under his ownership, you learned many things about 
dealing with politics and bureaucracies. Your master used you 
for   a   variety   of   tasks,   including   delivering   private   messages, 
light repairs on his star yacht, and watching over his children 
(who were prone to causing all manner of trouble).

• One of your owners had taken the time to train you how to 
lie. (He was a smuggler after all, and “a little backup with a con 
never hurt,” he claimed.) You enjoyed the heroic nature of some 
of  your more dangerous  missions, even though  you were the 
one forced to keep his ship’s faulty hyperdrive motivator opera­
tional....

• A young bounty hunter took you as pay for a job. She never 
really needed a droid hanging around, but still you wanted to 
please your new master. While fulfilling your primary function 
(protocol, food-preparation, or other such task) you learned the 
basics of first aid, weapon repair and maintenance, and minor 
shipboard operations.

•  A  small  store  owner  bought   you   to help  around  the  shop. 
While you were there, you met many “regulars” who came to 
know you on a personal level. The owner was a kind old man, 
and kept you well oiled, until you were stolen by one of the 
“regulars.“ Your existence has been a whirlwind of Black Market 
droid   auctions,   smuggling   runs   and   menial   labor   ever   since. 
You’ve seen a great deal, but you still want to find your kindly 
old master.

• Pirates stole you from one of your owners when they captured 
him   as   a   slave.   They   used   you   for   administrative   duties   and 
when you weren’t pushing Imperial slaver datawork around, the 
crew used you for target practice. During this period you lost a 
lot of vital circuitry but the ruffians always managed to put you 
back together again, albeit haphazardly. (You still can’t manage 
to get rid of that fluctuation in your neck servos, though.)

• After your last employment with an accounting agency, you 
were auctioned off to the head of a mercenary group. He let 
you keep all of your programming and knowledge, following his 
philosophy   that   “you   never   know   when   it’ll   come   in   handy.” 
After some time with the group, they began installing new soft­
ware and hardware on you. Now you can sneak into an enemy 
stronghold, plot an escape route for a personnel carrier, and fig­
ure out what the boss will save in salary, all at the same time.

Memory Wipes

Many droid owners make it a practice to memory wipe a new 
droid, and continue to do so as a part of the droid’s regular 
maintenance. Has your droid player character ever had its mem­
ory erased? If so, how long ago? Was the technician competent? 
Remember that when a droid is memory wiped, its personality 
matrix resets to the factory standard. In some cases (depending 
on the technician’s ability) remnants of the former personality 
are left intact, as well as memory fragments.

Memory Wipes and Character Development

From   the   time   a   droid   is   activated   its   personality   matrix 
begins learning and developing. When a droid is mindwiped, the 
personality matrix and memory default to the factory settings. 
The droid no longer remembers its former owners or its experi­
ences   and  is  essentially  “new”   (save   for  any  modifications   or 
hardwired skills it has acquired over time). Nevertheless, many 
droid technicians don’t do a complete job when erasing a droid’s 
memory, and some personality quirks can be left over. This can 
make the droid more entertaining to play.

Though the droid’s memory has been erased, it will still know 
how long it has been since it was activated. It will also know 
that it had been mindwiped. In most cases, a droid understands 
that a memory wipe is simply part of existence, though some 
droids often wonder what they were formerly like, who their 
owners were, and so on. In certain cases, a droid’s longing to 
understand its own existence has become obsessive.

Remember that a mindwiped droid considers its history to be 
much shorter than it actually is. This can be used by gamemas­
ters to alarming effect. Perhaps the character was a power droid 
refitted to process a cheater chip routine for its former master 
who was a sabacc gambler. Some of the victims who lost to the 
droid and his master might show up and remember the droid 
(even if the droid doesn’t recall ever meeting the being in ques­
tion). Perhaps the droid was reprogrammed for surveillance duty 
for CorSec and some of its law enforcement protocols are still in 
place; if the droid sees a crime being committed, it immediately 
signals   for the  local   constabulary  (which  would be  extremely 
embarrassing to smugglers at a shadowport).

GAME STATISTICS

All droids have a listing for game information. Droids can be 
listed as individuals (such as R2-D2 and C-3PO) or as a “stock” 
model   of   a   droid   (such   as   for   the   Industrial   Automaton   R2 
Astromech droid).

Type: The manufacturer, make and type of droid.
Attributes and Skills: For individual droids, these are listed in the 

same manner as normal characters. For stock droids, these listings 
can be considered “minimum” skills for all droids of that type. Of 
course, some individual droids will have been altered or repro­
grammed and thus will not meet the minimums, while other indi­
viduals can greatly exceed those minimums.

Equipped With: Many droids are equipped with specialized tools. 

These tools are listed here.

Special Skills: Some droids have specialized skills which are otherwise 
not commonly available. If that is the case, the skill (and its gov­
erning attribute) is listed and explained.

Special Abilities: Some droids have unique special abilities.
Story Factors: Some droids have very specific types of story factors. 
Story factors are things which can govern a droid’s behavior or 
how other beings interact with the droid, but are not “game rules” 
in the traditional sense.

Move: For an individual droid, its movement rate. For a type of droid, 

it may have two listings: the first number is the droid’s basic Move, 
while the second number represents the droid’s maximum Move.

Size: The droid’s size.
Cost: The cost of the droid, sometimes with “new” and “used” listings.
Equipment: Some droids carry equipment (just like characters). If this 

is the case, the droid’s equipment will be listed here.

SAMPLE DROIDS

The following droids are presented as basic models, in their 
factory preset state. The skills possessed by a basic model repre­
sent the droid’s core programming — characteristics the droid 
maintains even after being subjected to a memory wipe.

FIRST DEGREE DROIDS

2-1B Medical Droid

Programmed by some of the finest medical minds in the gal­
axy, Industrial Automaton’s 2-1B Series was the first commer­
cially successful  surgical  droid.  Each  2-1B is  equipped with  a 
computer   interface   socket   and   tether;   what   it   doesn’t   know 
about  a  patient’s  species   or medical  history,  it  can  download 
from   any   medical 
mainframe.

The   2-1B’s   surgi­
cal
  pincer   hand 
attachments are pre­
cision-engineered for 
smooth,
steady 
action. The core pro­
gramming   of   2-1   B 
surgical
droids 
includes   the   “physi­
cian’s   code.”   This 
prevents   the   droid 
from   refusing   medi­
cal aid to any being 
(unless   specifically 
ordered otherwise by 
an authorized operator). As well as preventing it from deliber­
ately inflicting harm on an organic creature (except as defined 
by extensive guidelines for saving a life). This includes a stricture 
against engaging in combat.

 2-1B MEDICAL DROID

Type: Geentech/Industrial Automaton 2-1B Surgical Droid
DEXTERITY 1D
KNOWLEDGE 2D
Alien Species 5D
MECHANICAL 2D
(A) Bacta tank operation 5D
PERCEPTION 3D
(A) Injury/ailment diagnosis 6D
STRENGTH 1D
TECHNICAL 3D
First Aid 6D, (A) medicine 9D
Equipped With:
• Computer interface tether (5 meters long). When connected to 

medical mainframe, adds +2D to all medical skills)

• Medical diagnostic computer
• Analytical computer
• Surgical attachments
• Hypodermic injectors (4D stun damage)
• Medicine dispensers
Move: 4
Size: 1.5 meters tall
Availability: 2, R
Cost: 4,300

 
 

FX-6 Medical Droid

The FX-6 medical droid was built during the Clone Wars as a 
mobile,   autonomous,   skilled   medical   assistant   to   field   medics 
fighting on the front line. The Grand Army of the Republic even 
dropped FX-6 droids into areas where fighting was planned (or 
already   going   on)   to   grant   additional   medical   aid   to   clone 
trooper forces. Of course, this also means that numerous battle­
fields were littered with FX-6s in various states of repair, and  
more than one scavenger took the opportunity to add a few to 
his inventory.

The FX-6 is able to move over many different terrains with its 
three casters, a trick not available to many FX models. Many FX 
droids are immobile, but the FX-6 has a strong sense of balance 
and good movement ability over any reasonably even terrain. 
This additional capacity comes at the price of not including a 
personality package or even a vocoder, leaving the droid able to 
communicate only through readout panels. Although this limi­
tation gives it a sinister bedside manner, it has no impact on the 
droid’s ability and desire to render medical assistance. Equipped 
with sensors, numerous surgical tools, and multiple appendages, 
an FX-6 can be equipped to deal with most medical problems 
and treat any species. 

Produced in vast numbers and seeded on dozens of battle­
fields, the FX-6 is a common sight in the years after the Clone  
Wars. Designed as an assis­
tant, the model is capable 
of   performing   as   a   full 
doctor   when   necessary, 
though   patients   often 
complain   about   its   appar­
ent lack of compassion. The 
model
  was   eventually 
replaced   by   the   more 
advanced   FX-7,   and   later 
the 2-1B.

 FX-6 MEDICAL
 DROID

Type: Medtech Industries FX-series Medical Assistant Droid
DEXTERITY 1D
KNOWLEDGE 1D
Alien Species 3D
MECHANICAL 1D
(A) Bacta tank operation 3D+1
PERCEPTION 2D
(A) Injury/ailment diagnostics 3D+2
STRENGTH 1D
TECHNICAL 2D
First aid 3D+1, (A) medicine 4D
Equipped With:
• Medical computer scomp link: interface to adequate medical com­

puter or surgeon droid adds +1D to all medical skills.

• Readout screen
• Medical diagnostic computer and sensor
• Analytical computer and sensors
• 14 light manipulator arms
• 6 main manipulator arms
• Various surgical attachments
• Hypodermic injectors (4D stun damage)
• Medicine dispensers
• Mobility caster trio
Move: 4
Size: 1.83 meters tall
Availability: 2, R
Cost: 4,300

SECOND DEGREE DROIDS

IT-0 Interrogator

With  much  the  same 
programming as a medi­
cal   droid,   an   IT-0   droid 
seems   harmless   enough 
in   technological   terms. 
Its   sinister   appearance, 
however,   gives   away   its 
true function. A floating 
ball   of   black   durasteel, 
an  
interrogator 
droid bristles with instruments of torture and recording devices. 
Its claw, shock devices, and twisted versions of medical gear are 
designed to give it an aura of menace. Indeed, its reputation has 
spread far enough that many prisoners begin reciting their sins 
as soon as one floats into their cell.

IT-0  

The   IT-0   Interrogator   is   the   product   of   Imperial   military 
research and the ISB, and it is manufactured solely by Imperial 
factories.   Use   of   the   IT-0   is   carefully   controlled   by   the   ISB, 
though models dc get into the hands of senior Moffs, military  
intelligence,   and   even   CompForce.   The   Inquisition   has   begun 
manufacturing the model on its own, a fact the ISB is not aware 
of and won’t be pleased by. Stormtrooper garrison commanders 
are also known to employ them, though generally only under 
the guidance of a senior officer.

The droid can interrogate a prisoner by itself, or in conjunc­
tion with living questioners. It is designed with an emotionless 
personality and asks questions in a flat monotone. When work­
ing with a living assistant, the IT-0 often says nothing at all,  
allowing the prisoner to come to fear and hate the droid, while 
seeing the living interrogator as a source of potential mercy. An 
IT-0 is well equipped to bring a victim to the brink of physical 
damage   without   doing   permanent   harm,   though   it   also   has 
medical   supplies   and   training   in   case   a   session   goes   too   far 
before valuable information can be obtained.

 IT-0 INTERROGATOR DROID
Type: Imperial IT-0 Interrogator Droid
DEXTERITY 1D
Dodge 3D, melee combat 3D, melee combat: interrogation tools 4D+1
KNOWLEDGE 3D
Alien species 4D, humanoid biology 5D, intimidation 6D, intimidation: 

interrogation 7D

MECHANICAL 2D
Sensors 3D
PERCEPTION 4D
Investigation 5D, search 5D
STRENGTH 3D
TECHNICAL 2D
First aid 5D, (A) medicine 5D, security 4D
Equipped With:
• Repulsorlift engine
• Visual/sound sensor package
• Vocabulator speech/sound system
• Laser scalpel (2D damage)
• Hypodermic injectors (4D stun damage)
• Power shears (5D damage)
• Grasping claw (+1D to lifting)
Move: 3
Size: 1 meter
Availability: 4, X
Cost: 10,000

R2 Series Astromech Droid

R4-Series Agromech Droid

The R2 astromech is Industrial Automaton’s most successful 
series of diagnostic and repair droids, largely due to the com­
pact design that enables it (unlike its predecessors) to fit pre­
cisely   into   the   astromech   sockets   of   starfighters.   An   R2   unit 
performs all of the most complex astrogation, flight data, tech­
nical  diagnosis, and power management tasks, freeing fighter 
pilots to concentrate on staying alive.

The R2 astromech droid is surprisingly versatile for its size. 
R2s boast an overwhelming array of tools and sensors, all tucked 
away behind various access panels, keeping the housing largely 
free   of   obstructions.   Industrial   Automaton’s   designers   even 
found a way to include “wasted space” in the chassis, allowing 
internal   storage,   easy   upgrades,   and   modifications.   Even   the 
four  standard  appendages   (two  manipulator  arms,  an   electric 
arc   welder,   and   a   circular   saw)   can   be 
quickly and easily switched out with 
a number of specialty arms avail­
able.   The   two   empty   slots   are 
typically   filled   with   a   fire 
extinguisher and a computer 
interface   probe   (for   an 
additional cost).

Because these droids are 
quick-witted,   sincere,   and 
often insightful, many owners 
are   reluctant  to  have   their 
memories   wiped,   resulting 
in headstrong, independent 
astromech droids.

 R2 ASTROMECH DROID
Type: Industrial Automaton R2 

Astromech Droid

DEXTERITY 1D
KNOWLEDGE 1D
MECHANICAL 2D
Astrogation 5D, starfighter piloting 3D, space transports 3D
PERCEPTION 1D
STRENGTH 1D
TECHNICAL 2D
Computer programming/repair 4D, starfighter repair 5D*
* Astromech droids, if acting in co-pilot capacity, may attempt star­

ship repair while in flight.

Equipped With:
• Three wheeled legs (center leg retractable)
• Retractable heavy grasping arm (lifting at 2D)
• Retractable fine work heavy grasper arm
• Extendable 0.3 meter long video sensor (360 degree rotation)
• Small electric arc welder (1D to 5D, as fitting situation, 0.3 meters 

range)

• Small circular saw (4D, 0.3 meter range)
• Video display screen
• Holographic projector/recorder
• Fire extinguisher
• Small (20 cm by 8 cm) internal “cargo” area
• Some additional small tools and equipment
Move: 5
Size: One meter tall
Availability: 2, F
Cost: 4,500

With the massive success of the R2 
astromech droid and the 2-1B medical 
droid in the last years of the Old Republic, 
Industrial Automaton needed to find 
new markets. The company decided to 
create a droid for casual users who 
were more likely to need a hand 
with a swoop than with a starfighter. 
The R4 agromech was designed to 
appeal to fringe world owners who 
needed a skilled hand around the 
garage, Core World designers who 
wanted help building prototypes, and 
farmers of any world who could use a droid that was reliable 
and loyal. 

The R4 is based on the basic design of the older R2, although 
its design includes cost-saving measures to make it more acces­
sible and less specialized. The R4 droid uses fewer miniaturized 
parts, resulting in a taller profile but a sturdier overall design. 
Internal   components   are   spaced   farther   apart,   reducing   the 
droid’s   computing   power   (and   making   it   unsuitable   as   an 
astromech   unless   modified),   but   enhancing   its   stability   and 
decreasing the number of elements prone to malfunctions. The 
result is a droid that can survive in harsh conditions and remain 
operational even after taking damage that might wreck a more 
delicate model.

The R4 is very popular with repair crews, who often prefer it 
to  repair droids   specifically designed  for reconstruction  tasks. 
The R4 can also monitor crops, medical equipment, and nearly 
any type of sensor. Like the R2 on which it is based, the R4 is 
seen   as   friendly   and   helpful.   The   Empire,   the   Rebellion,   and 
thousands   of   other   organizations   and  individuals   employ   R4s 
across   the   galaxy,   and   it   is   easy   to   obtain   spare   parts   and 
instructions for common modifications for R4 droids.

 R4 AGROMECH DROID

Type: Industrial Automaton R4 Astromech Droid
DEXTERITY 2D
KNOWLEDGE 2D
Languages 3D
MECHANICAL 3D
Repulsorlift operation 4D
PERCEPTION 2D
Search 3D
STRENGTH 2D
TECHNICAL 3D
Computer programming/repair 4D+2, droid repair 4D, repulsorlift 

repair 5D, security 4D

Equipped With:
• Three wheeled legs (one retractable)
• Internal comlink
• Photoreceptor with infrared vision (can see in the dark up to 30 

meters)

• Internal storage (extra space available for 8 kilograms of storage or 

upgrades)

• 4 tool mounts (has four appendages that have tools attached to 

them)

• Acoustic signaler
Move: 8
Size: 1 meter
Availability: 2, F
Cost: 2,500

WED Treadwell

The WED Treadwell is not the most famous or most successful 
repair droid, but a large number of them have been manufac­
tured and sold throughout the galaxy. Because the droid has a 
simple appearance — that of a rolling platform with a viewer on 
a stalk and four or more tool arms — raiders and pirates often 
overlook it when plundering. As a result, the Treadwell is one of 
the least often stolen droids. In fact, Treadwells are sometimes 
mistaken for tool racks, which is unsurprising since they essen­
tially act as rolling tool racks for their owners. Treadwells are not 
particularly bright and don’t have much drive, but these factors 
make them obedient and reliable, and they are especially popu­
lar on fringe worlds where residents are suspicious of droids.

Although WED Treadwells are fragile, requiring regular main­
tenance and environments that contain few hazards, they have 
a reputation for being adaptable and alert. The arms of a Tread­
well can be swapped out quickly and easily, and many owners 
keep a stockpile of specialty arms for specific jobs. The droids 
are   also   single-minded,   doing   what   they   are   told   until   they 
complete the task or receive new instructions.

 WED 15 TREADWELL DROID

Type: Cybot Galactica WED 15 Treadwell Droid
DEXTERITY 2D
KNOWLEDGE 1D
Languages: droid languages 4D
MECHANICAL 1D
PERCEPTION 3D
Search 3D+1
STRENGTH 1D
TECHNICAL 2D
Computer programming/repair 4D+2, machinery repair 6D, repulsor­
lift repair 4D, space transports repair 4D+1, starfighter repair 
5D+1
Equipped With:
• Video sensor
• Dual-tread locomotion
• Fine manipulator arms (+1D to repair skills)
• Extensible video microbinoculars (+2D to search for microscale 

work)
• Various tools
• Cybot acoustic signaler (droid languages)
Move: 8
Size: 1.6 meters
Availability: 2, F
Cost: 3,000

THIRD DEGREE DROIDS

3PO Protocol Droid

Supplied with a SyntheTech AA-1 Verbobrain, the 3PO proto­
col  droid is capable of  storing huge amounts of  information, 
enabling it to understand over six million forms of communica­
tion and respond in nearly all of them. It also has a tremendous 
capacity for analyzing previously unknown languages and trans­
lating them into whatever language its master desires. The 3PO 
even   includes   an   olfactory   sensor  for  translating   pheromonal 
communication. The 3PO’s additional memory storage is gener­
ally used to keep specific communication modes in active mem­
ory,   avoiding   lengthy   delays   while   searching   for   linguistic 
information in mid-translation.

Each   3PO   comes   with   a   factory-installed   restraining   bolt 
mount. They are also programmed for passive behavior — a typi­
cal   3PO   droid   never   attacks   under   any   circumstances.   If   the 
droid becomes a problem, the 3PO’s shutdown switch is conve­
niently located at the back of its neck.

Built to resemble humanoids, 3POs come in a wide variety of 

colors.

 3PO PROTOCOL DROID

Type: Cybot Galactica 3PO Human-Cyborg Relations Droid
DEXTERITY 1D
KNOWLEDGE 3D
Cultures 6D, languages 10D*
MECHANICAL 1D
PERCEPTION 1D
STRENGTH 1D
TECHNICAL 1D
* The droid’s vocabulator speech/sound system makes the droid capa­

ble of reproducing virtually any sound it hears or is programmed to  
reproduce.

Equipped With:
• Humanoid body (two arms, two legs, head)
• Two visual and audio sensors – human range
• Vocabulator speech/sound system
• AA-1 VerboBrain
• TransLang III Communications module with over seven million lan­

guages

Move: 8
Size: 1.7 meters tall
Availability: 2, F
Cost: 3,000 (new)

CZ-Series Secretary Droid

Designed to serve as a communica­

tions assistant for bureaucrats, corpo­
rate   executives,   and   military 
administrators,   the   CZ-Series   sec­
retary droid specializes in man­
aging,   organizing,   and 
directing   all   forms   of 
communications through 
a   particular   office   or 
organization. The droid han­
dles   audio  signals   from   comlinks,   text 
and   data   messages   through   planetary 
computer   networks,   and   holographic 
messages   from   the   HoloNet.   The   droid 
has internal systems capable of acting as a 
switchboard,   receiving,   analyzing,   and 
routing many communications simultane­
ously.   Furthermore,   it   is   programmed   to 
receive instructions from its owner on how 
to   prioritize   incoming   communications, 
ensuring that during the work day, only the most urgent mes­
sages and comlink requests are passed on. The CZ-Series secre­
tary droid serves as a buffer between its owner and those who 
want to contact him or her, and it comes loaded with the most 
common languages spoken by its owner’s associates.

Once the owner links his or her comlink, data pads, portable 
computers, and other communications devices to the droid, its 
programming   takes   over,   and   the   droid   receives,   sorts,   and 
routes all messages.

 CZ SECRETARY DROID

Type: Serv-O-Droid CZ Series Secretary  Droid
DEXTERITY 1D+1
KNOWLEDGE 2D
Business 5D, languages 5D
MECHANICAL 1D
PERCEPTION 2D
Con 3D+1, persuasion 3D+2
STRENGTH 1D
TECHNICAL 2D
Computer programming/repair 4D+2
Equipped With:
• Humanoid body (two legs, two arms, head)
• Locked access (The droid’s shut-down switch is secured or internal­

ly located)

• Multinode communications link
• Internalized datapad
• TransLang I Communications module with over 500,000 languages.
Move: 10
Size: 1.7 meters tall
Availability: 2, F
Cost: 8,280

EV-Series Supervisor Droid

MerenData designed the EV-Series supervisor droid to man­
age other droids. The idea of a droid supervising a company’s 
droid pool appealed to many organizations, and the humanoid-
shaped unit sold reasonably well. When MerenData discovered 
shortly   after   the   line’s   release   that   the   motivators   originally 
planned for the EV-Series were accidentally swapped with ones 
meant to be installed in torture droids, they decided to wait and 

see how the droids 
performed. Much to 
their   surprise,   the 
droids   with   the 
swapped motivators 
actually   outper­
formed   the   unal­
tered droids when it 
came   to   managing 
the   droids   under 
their care. However, 
the   discovery   that 
the EV-Series droids 
were   using   sadistic 
methods to accomplish their tasks, such as melting a droid’s feet 
to the floor to prevent it from leaving a station or treating it to 
an oil bath set afire, forced MerenData to issue a massive recall 
to exchange the motivators. Although most of the droids were 
brought   in  and  repaired,   some   customers,   such   as   crime   lord 
Ploovo Two-for-One, preferred the flawed model.

 EV SERIES SUPERVISOR DROID
Type: MerenData EV Supervisor Droid
DEXTERITY 1D
KNOWLEDGE 3D
Intimidation: droids 4D, languages 4D, value: droids 5D
MECHANICAL 1D
PERCEPTION 2D
Command: droids 5D
STRENGTH 1D
TECHNICAL 3D
Computer programming/repair 4D, droid programming 5D, droid 

repair 4D+1
Equipped With:
• Humanoid body (two arms, two legs, head)
• High frequency binary comlink
• Broad band broadcast antenna/receiver system
• Two visual and audio sensors – Human range
• Vocabulator speech/sound system
Move: 7
Size: 1.8 meters tall
Availability: 2, F
Cost: 11,380
Equipment: Arc welder (6D), datapad

FOURTH DEGREE DROIDS

B1 Series Battle Droid

Frail   in   appearance   but   deadly   in   intent,   Baktoid   Combat 
Automata’s battle droid is a metal skeleton with a blaster. Built 
by the Geonosians to the Trade Federation’s specifications, bat­
tle droids are designed to resemble Geonosians, or perhaps des­
iccated Neimoidian corpses. Most intelligent beings regard them 
as   startling,   but   Neimoidians   see   battle   droids   as   positively 
ghoulish.

Battle   droids   are   drones   controlled   by  a   remote   processor, 
taking their commands from a Central Control Computer that 
operates   several   thousand  battle   droids,  destroyer   droids,  and 
droid starfighters simultaneously. A battle droid communicates 
with its fellow drones via comlinks, transmission antennae, and 
encryption computers, making for a control signal that is nearly 
impossible to jam (Heroic communications skill roll).

Droideka Series Destroyer Droid

Designed and built by the Geonosians of Geonosis and the 
Collicoids of Colla IV, the Droideka Series destroyer droids reflect 
the savage ferocity of their makers.

The main propulsion method of destroyer droids is a microre­
pulsor-assisted wheel mode that allows a destroyer droid to fold 
itself into  a roughly  wheel-shaped package and  roll along  at 
high   speeds.   Though   lightning-swift   in   this   mode,   destroyer 
droids   are   considerably   more   ponderous   when   unfolded   for 
combat.

Destroyer droids have two heavy repeating blasters that can 
lay down a devastating barrage. To augment its bronzium armor 
shell, a destroyer droid also comes equipped with  a deflector 
shield generator. The tremendous energy drain of the blasters 
and shields  necessitates that  the destroyer droid be equipped 
with a mini-reactor.

Destroyer droids can’t be played as droid heroes.

 DROIDEKA DESTROYER DROID
Type: Droideka Series Destroyer Droid
DEXTERITY 3D
Blaster: heavy repeating blaster 8D+2
KNOWLEDGE 1D
MECHANICAL 1D
PERCEPTION 1D
Search 3D+2
STRENGTH 3D
Brawling 7D+1
TECHNICAL 1D
Equipped With:
• Two mounted heavy repeating blasters (8D damage, range: 3-

75/200/500)

• Body armor (+1D to Strength to resist all damage)
• Defensive shields (+3D to Strength to resist damage)
• Remote processor (500 Km range)
Move: 4 walking, 25 in “wheel mode”
Size: 1.5 meters tall
Availability: 3, X
Cost: 21,000 credits

 BATTLE DROID

Type: Baktoid Combat 
Automata B1 Series 
Battle Droid
DEXTERITY 1D
Blaster: blaster rifle 3D
KNOWLEDGE 1D
MECHANICAL 1D
PERCEPTION 1D
STRENGTH 2D
Brawling 3D
TECHNICAL 1D
Equipped With:
• Integrated comlink
• Remote receiver 

(5,000 km range)
• Body armor (+1D to 

Strength to resist all damage)

• Vocabulator (the droid can replicate organic speech)
Equipment: Blaster carbine (5D damage, range: 3-30/100/300)
Move: 10
Size: 1.8 meters tall
Availability: 3, X
Cost: 1,800 credits

B2 Series Super Battle Droid

The B2 Series Super Battle Droid is a marked improvement in 
the original B1 Series Battle Droid design. Larger and armored, 
the Super Battle 
Droid relies on a central 
control computer for 
guidance, but it 
doesn’t deactivate when 
it loses contact with the remote 
processor thanks to a backup internal 
processor — a droid brain that takes 
over when the droid loses com-
munication with the central 
computer. This second brain allows 
the droid to store its last set of 
orders and continue acting on them 
even after the remote processor has 
shut down.

 SUPER BATTLE DROID

Type: Baktoid Combat Automata B2 Series Battle Droid
DEXTERITY 2D
Blaster 3D, blaster: blaster rifle 4D, dodge 3D, melee combat 3D, vehi­

cle blasters 3D
KNOWLEDGE 1D
MECHANICAL 1D
PERCEPTION 1D
STRENGTH 2D
Brawling 3D
TECHNICAL 1D
Equipped With:
• Mounted blaster rifle (5D damage, range: 3-30/100/300)
• Remote receiver (5,000 km range, with local back-up processor)
• Light armor (+1D to Strength to resist damage)
• Vocabulator (the droid can replicate organic speech)
Move: 10
Size: 1.8 meters tall
Cost: 3,300 credits

Dwarf Spider Droid

In   the   Battle   of   Geonosis,   the   Commerce   Guild   deployed 
forces of dwarf spider droids. Larger than a standard battle droid 
and  armed with  a  powerful  blaster cannon, the  dwarf  spider 
droid gives mobile heavy weapon support to advancing infantry.

The original function of dwarf spider droids was to root out 
hidden mining operations. The Commerce Guild requires a trib­
ute payment for all commercial operations within its borders; 
however, small independent operations often dig within Com­
merce Guild borders and attempt to smuggle the precious ore 
into a neutral region, avoiding tribute payments. Dwarf spider 
droids   are   equipped   to   descend   down   rocky   crags   like   those 
found inside rough-hewn mine shafts, to catch offenders red-
handed before they can reach the safety of the Commerce Guild 
border. Commerce Guild star cruisers also carry compliments of 
dwarf spider droids for security and tribute enforcement.
Dwarf Spider droids can’t be played as droid heroes.

 DWARF SPIDER DROID

Type: Commerce Guild Dwarf Spider Droid
DEXTERITY 3D
Blaster artillery: blaster cannon 4D
KNOWLEDGE 1D
MECHANICAL 1D
PERCEPTION 2D
Search 3D
STRENGTH 3D+1
Climbing 4D+1
TECHNICAL 1D
Equipped With:
• Blaster cannon (9D)
• Light armor (+2 to Strength to resist damage)
• Comlink
• Digging claws
• Locked access (the droid’s shut-down switch is internally located)
• Magnetic feet
• Restraining bolt
• Improved sensor package (+2 to all search skill rolls)
• Infrared vision (can see in the dark up to 30 meters)
• Self-destruct system
Move: 10, 4 (burrowing)
Size: 1.6 meters tall
Availability: 3, X
Cost: 3,500

Crab Droid

Introduced late in the Clone Wars, the crab droids used by 
the   Confederacy   of   Independent   Systems   were   designed   to 
function as advanced scouts and trailblazers in harsh environ­
ments.   Nicknamed   “muckrakers”   by   the   clone   trooper   legions 
they faced, crab droids were often used on wet, swampy worlds  
where they could use their powerful vacuum system to clear a 
path for battle droids to follow.

Crab droids range in size from 2 meters tall for the scout 
models to 6 meters tall for the assault models. They have metal 
armor   plating   on   the   outside   and   multiple   jointed   legs   that
grant them great stability and flexibility. Though 
they are well protected from 
incoming fire, they do have 
weak spots atop their 
central bodies that, 
while difficult to 
reach, leave vital 
equipment and 
computer sys­
tems exposed 
to anyone 
brave enough 
to get that close.

 CRAB DROID

Type: Confederacy of Independent Systems LM-432 Crab Droid
DEXTERITY 3D
Blasters 4D+1
KNOWLEDGE 1D
MECHANICAL 1D
PERCEPTION 1D
Search 3D
STRENGTH 3D
Climbing/jumping 5D
TECHNICAL 1D
Equipped With:
• Twin blasters (6D damage)
• Water/mud jet sprayer
• Armorplast shielding (+1D to resist damage)
• Six legs (2 tipped with heavy duranium stabilizers, granting +3D to 

climbing/jumping)

Move: 9
Size: 1.49 meters tall
Availability: 3, X
Cost: 20,000

DRK-1 Probe Droid

Excelling at espionage, probe droids can move about unno­
ticed, record information, and report to their masters without 
anyone being the wiser. The DRK-1 probe droid, also known as 
the Dark Eye, is a stealthy and observant droid developed by 
Arakyd Industries and used by the Sith apprentice Darth Maul. 
Like all probe droids, the DRK-1 is designed for passive observa­
tion as opposed to more overt espionage, and as such most of 
its systems are dedicated to sensors and data transmission. How­
ever, unlike most other probe droids (which are usually armed 
only with small blaster pistols), the Dark Eye can create a swath 
of destruction with its grenade launcher. Though using this fea­
ture calls a bit more attention to the droid than most owners 
would care for, such havoc can often cover the droid’s escape, 
allowing it to slip away and return to its master amid the chaos 
of a battle.

 DARK EYE PROBE DROID

 IG-100 MAGNAGUARD

Type: Arakyd Industries DRK-1 “Dark Eye” 

Probe Droid
DEXTERITY 3D
Blaster 4D, dodge 5D
KNOWLEDGE 3D
Scholar: Jedi lore 6D, survival 7D
MECHANICAL 1D
PERCEPTION 3D
Hide 7D, search 10D, sneak 6D
STRENGTH 1D
TECHNICAL 1D
Equipped With:
• Anti-scan shell (scan-absorbing shell pro­
vides a +1D+1 bonus to hide skill rolls)

• Comlink
• Improved sensor package (+2 bonus to all search skill rolls)
• Infrared vision (the droid can see in the dark up to 30 meters)
• Laser cannon (5D damage, range: 3-30/100/300)
• Low light vision (the droid can see twice as far as a human in dim 

light)

• Motion sensors (+2 bonus to search checks against moving targets)
• Recording unit (the droid can record and play back up to 5 minutes 

of footage)

• Self-destruct system (the droid will self-destruct/explode under 

predetermined circumstances)

• Sonic sensors (+2 bonus to search checks that involve sound)
• Stun blaster (4D stun damage, range: 3-10/30/120)
• Poison dart needler (range 3-10/30/60, see below for other details)
• Telescopic vision (the droid’s visual sensors include a long-range 

capability)

• Mounts. The droid has three appendages that have weapons or 

equipment attached to them. They generally mount a holoprojec­
tor, grenade launcher, and a magazine of 6 frag grenades.

Equipment Notes:
Poison Dart Needler: This needler gun is loaded with darts that con­
tain a paralytic poison. The darts inflict no damage, but if used 
against an unarmored target (or an unarmored portion of a tar­
get, see the rules for called shots, they inject their poison. The 
target of such an attack must succeed at a Difficult Strength 
check or be paralyzed and unable to move for 1D x 40 minute. 
The needler gun carries enough darts for ten shots.

Move: 16
Availability: 4, X
Cost: Not available for sale.
Size: 0.2 meters

IG-100 Series Bodyguard Droid

Manufactured   by   Holowan   Mechanicals,   the   first   IG-l00

Series MagnaGuard droids were custom-built to General Griev­
ous’s specifications. Quick and deadly, the MagnaGuards are 
designed to protect their charge to their own 
destruction. MagnaGuard droids have thick 
metal plating covering a wiry endoskele­
ton and have specially designed 
arms that are adept at wield­
ing melee weapons.

Type: Holowan Mechanicals IG-series bodyguard droid
DEXTERITY 5D
Blaster 7D, brawling parry 6D+2, dodge 7D, melee combat, 9D, melee 

parry 8D+2, missile weapons 7D

KNOWLEDGE 2D
MECHANICAL 2D
PERCEPTION 3D
Search 6D, search: tracking 8D, sneak 4D
STRENGTH 4D+2
Brawling 6D, climbing/jumping 6D, lifting 5D+1
TECHNICAL 1D+2
Computer programming/repair 3D, droid programming 3D, droid 

repair 3D
Equipped With:
• Humanoid body (two arms, two legs, head)
• Body armor (+1D to resist damage)
• Long-range sensor (+2D to search for objects 50-750 meters away)
• Motion sensor (+2D to search for moving objects up to 400 meters 

away)
Move: 13
Size: 1.95 meters tall
Availability: 4, X
Cost: 19,000 credits
Equipment: Electrostaff (STR+2D, deflects lightsaber)

T-Series Tactical Droid

Designed for tactical leadership among 

the droid forces  of  the Confederacy, T-
Series tactical droids from Baktoid Com­
bat   Automata   are   originally   deployed 
along   side   00M-Series   battle   droids. 
Tactical   droids   boast   advanced   com­
bat-analysis software that helps them 
determine exactly when and where to 
attack for the greatest effect. Tactical 
droids serve as combat consultants subor­
dinate   to  droid   commanders,   but   all   too 
often, the tactical droid’s superior knowl­
edge   of   combat   strategies   gives   it   a 
heightened sense of self-worth, leading 
T-Series   tactical   droids   to   exert   their 
influence   over   the   command   structure. 
Unfortunately,   the   tactical   droid’s   commands   override 
those   of   00M-Series   battle   droid   commanders,   causing   droid 
troops to receive conflicting commands. Consequently, Confed­
eracy leaders learn to avoid posting tactical droids among droid 
forces with 00M-Series battle droids.

 T-SERIES TACTICAL DROID

Type: Baktoid Combat Automata T-Series Tactical Droid
DEXTERITY 2D
Blaster 2D+1, vehicle blasters 2D+1
KNOWLEDGE 3D
Tactics 4D+1
MECHANICAL 3D
Capital ship piloting 3D+2, capital ship shields 3D+2
PERCEPTION 3D
Command 3D+1, search 4D+2
STRENGTH 2D
Brawling 2D+1
TECHNICAL 2D
Computer programming/repair 3D+1
Equipped With:
• Humanoid body (two arms, two legs, head)
• Internal comlink
• Synchronized fire circuits (+2D to command remotely linked droid)

• Durasteel plating (+2D physical, +1D energy)
• Vocabulator
Move: 10
Size: 1.8 meters tall
Availability: 4, X
Cost: 14,000 credits
Equipment: Electrobinoculars, blaster carbine (5D, range: 3-

20/60/210).

Viper Series Probe Droid

Before the rise of the Empire, probe droids — often referred 
to as probots — were used primarily to map space lanes, survey 
planets,   and   perform   search-and-rescue   operations.   However, 
such friendly purposes fell by the wayside as the Emperor con­
quered more and more systems. Probots became tools for root­
ing   out   traitors   on   far-flung   worlds.   Arakyd   Industries 
manufactures the Empire’s favored model, the Arakyd Viper, for 
this very purpose.

Equipped with an extensive sensor system, the Viper is either 
deployed directly from the ground or fitted with an optional 
delivery system that guides the probot from a ship to the desig­
nated   planet.   The   delivery   system   possesses   only  rudimentary 
breaking capabilities, so it includes buffers to prevent damage to 
the droid on impact. These are especially important, since the 
Imperial Viper’s self-destruct system is designed to destroy the 
droid if it takes significant damage (to prevent it from falling 
into enemy hands). The sublight delivery system costs an addi­
tional   5,000   credits;   a   hyperspace-capable   version   sells   for 
15,000 credits.

 VIPER SERIES PROBE DROID

Type: Arakyd Viper Probe Droid
DEXTERITY 3D
Blaster 4D
KNOWLEDGE 2D+2
Planetary systems 4D
MECHANICAL 3D
Sensors 6D
PERCEPTION 3D
Search 4D, search: tracking 7D+1
STRENGTH 4D
TECHNICAL 2D+1

Equipped With:
• Long-range sensor (+1D to search for objects between 200 meters 

and five kilometers away)

• Movement sensor (+2D to search for moving objects up to 100 

meters away)

• Atmosphere sensor — can determine atmosphere class (Type I, Type 

II, Type HI, Type IV) within one half-hour

• Blaster cannon (4D+2)
• Self-destruct mechanism
• Repulsor generator for movement over any terrain
• Several retractable manipulator arms
• Several retractable sensor arms for gathering samples
Move: 14
Size: 1.6 meters tall
Availability: 3, X
Cost: 18,500

FIFTH DEGREE DROIDS

8D Smelter Droid

With all the industries in the galaxy 

that rely on metals, several mining 
companies that also smelt their ores 
became quite successful in their fields. 
However, the smelting process proved 
to be extremely hazardous for organic 
workers who labored inside the blast 
furnaces. Roche, hoping to step up its 
presence in the droid market, designed 
the 8D smelter droid to work in incredibly
hot smelting plants in pl ace of more 
vulnerable organic employees. Much to the 
delight of the Verpines that run Roche, 
the 8D was well accepted by the major 
smelting companies.

The feature of the 8D smelter droid 
that makes it better at working in higher 
temperatures than the typical droid is 
the proprietary ore from which it is 
made.   By   molecularly   combining   high-grade   durasteel   with 
kevlex,   Roche   created   a   metal   with   a   melting   point   of   over 
1,650 degrees Centigrade and used it to create the 8D, which 
can work in areas that would turn other droids into slag.

 8D SMELTER DROID

Type: Roche 8D Smelting Operator
DEXTERITY 1D
KNOWLEDGE 1D
MECHANICAL 2D
Machinery operation 4D
PERCEPTION 2D
STRENGTH 4D
Stamina 6D
TECHNICAL 1D
Equipped With:
• Humanoid body (two arms, two legs, head)
• Vocabulator
• Heat-resistant durasteel molecular bonded with kevlex chassis 

(+1D against physical and energy damage, 4,000 degrees resis­
tance)

• Protected photoreceptors (−1D to search plus infrared vision)
Move: 7
Size: 1.65 meters tall
Availability: 2, F
Cost: 7,200 

ASP Labor Droid

ASP Series labor droids are com­

mon throughout the galaxy. 
They perform a variety of 
simple tasks, including main­
tenance, repair, sanitation, 
delivery, and simple hard 
labor. Cheap and effective, 
they are designed as 
“entry-level” droids for 
first-time buyers. Many ASP 
owners modify the droids heavi­
ly instead of actually replacing 
them.

ASPs are built for strength and 

sturdiness, not intelligence. 
Since the main virtue of the 
ASP is versatility, it’s pro­
grammed with only the most 
basic functions-leaving the owner to instruct 
the droid in its specific duties.

 ASP-7 WORKER DROID

Type: Industrial Automaton ASP-7 Droid
DEXTERITY 1D
KNOWLEDGE 1D
MECHANICAL 1D
PERCEPTION 1D
Search 2D
STRENGTH 1D
Lifting 2D
TECHNICAL 1D
Equipped With:
• Humanoid body (two arms, two legs, head)
• One photoreceptor
• Two auditory receptors
Story Factors:
Basic Programming: basic ASP-7 droids are programmed only for the 
most menial of tasks. They are often out of place in other settings 
where more specialized droids would be used, such as starship 
engineering bays, medical suites and battlefields. They can be 
upgraded with improved programming and more attachments and 
equipment at an additional cost.

Restricted Vocabulary: The basic ASP-7 unit can only reply with the 
words “affirmative” or “negative”, despite any question asked or 
situation encountered.

Move: 6
Size: 1.6 meters tall
Availability: 2, F
Cost: 1,000 credits (stock, new), 300 to 3,000 credits (used/modified)

MSE-6 Repair Droid

The MSE-6, or “mouse droid,”  is a  wheeled droid  used for 
basic tasks such as maintenance of a single mechanical system, 
message delivery, cleaning, and even testing dangerous areas of 
a damaged starship or station to make sure it is safe for living 
creatures (and more expensive droids). The MSE-6 is the result of 
a long line of small, dedicated, cheap droids used by the Old 
Republic and other governments. The MSE-6, however, is almost 
exclusively in use by the Empire, which bought nearly the whole 
run (at a steep discount). The droids are used for Imperial instal­
lations that have high crew requirements, such as Star Destroy­
ers, to cut down on the need for larger droids and Human work 
crews as much as possible.

 MSE-6 UTILITY DROID

Type: Rebaxan Columni MSE-6 

General Purpose Droid

DEXTERITY 2D
KNOWLEDGE 1D
MECHANICAL 1D
PERCEPTION 1D
STRENGTH 1D
TECHNICAL 1D
Equipped With:
• Electro-photoreceptor
• Auditory sensors
• Holocam
• Treads
• Retractable heavy manipulator (+2D to lifting)
• Retractable fine manipulator (+1D to lifting)
• One skill matrix programmed with one of the following skills: 

bureaucracy 3D, sensors 3D, hide 3D, search 3D, armor repair 3D, 
blaster repair 3D, capital ship repair 3D, capital ship weapon repair  
3D, computer programming/repair 3D, droid programming 3D, 
droid repair 3D, security 3D, starfighter repair 3D

Move: 5
Size: 0.3 meters
Availability: 3, R
Cost: 2,000 credits

DESIGNING, CUSTOMIZING, 
AND MAINTAINING DROIDS

Droids in the  Star Wars  universe can be built and modified 
the same as any vehicle or piece of equipment. In most cases 
however, the internal mechanics of a droid are so complicated 
that only the most learned and experienced of beings can ade­
quately do the work required.

DROID-RELATED SKILLS

There are three primary skills a character can possess with the 
express purpose of working on droids. These are droid program­
ming, droid repair, and the advanced skill; (A) droid engineering.

Droid Programming: Whenever a character wishes to modify 
a droid’s basic programming, she must make a droid program­
ming roll to accomplish her task. For more information on droid 
programming, refer to the “Attributes & Skills” chapter.

Droid   Repair:  Characters  use this   skill   to repair  or modify 
droids. See below for more information on droid repair, as well 
as the “Attributes & Skills” chapter.

(A) Droid Engineering: The (A) droid engineering skill encom­
passes the various facets of layout, design, and implementation 
of  producing a droid from scratch. (While it is  possible for a 
character   to construct   a   droid  using  the   normal  droid  repair 
skill, the process is extremely difficult; hence the advantage to 
using (A) droid engineering.)

As an advanced skill,  (A) droid engineering  requires double 
the amount of Character Points to advance, as well as a  droid 
repair or droid programming die code of at least 5D. If a charac­
ter has 5D in droid repair but not droid programming, that char­
acter   may   purchase  (A)   droid   engineering  (however   the

 

NOTE TO GAMEMASTERS

It   should   be   stressed   that   the   following   material 
presents optional rules for designing and improving droid 
characters.   If   you   feel   the   bookkeeping   involved   takes 
away from the flavor of your game, modify the rules to 
suit your campaign.

bonus   effects   from   the   advanced   skill   will   only   apply   to 
attempts   that   normally   fall   under   the  droid   repair  skill).   The 
same is true of characters that possess droid programming and 
not  droid repair, the advanced skill can be used in situations 
where droid programming skill rolls would also be allowed.

If both prerequisite skills are at 5D or greater, (A) droid engi­
neering can be used to both repair and program a droid. Refer 
to Chapter 3 for more information on advanced skills.

DESIGNING A DROID

Owning a droid can be an interesting challenge for a charac­
ter. The player has the ability to maintain, upgrade, and, with 
the gamemaster’s assistance, even create a droid. When a char­
acter wishes to build a droid, the first thing that must be decid­
ed   upon   is   the   intended   function   of   the   droid.   What   is   the 
droid’s primary purpose, and what will it be used for? Remember 
that droids are always created with a specific purpose in mind, 
and the skills and components that the unit possesses should 
reflect that purpose.

Other things to keep in mind are the droid’s appearance, how 
it interacts with other characters, and where the droid will see 
service.   Does   the   droid   appear   humanoid?   Will   it   work   in   a 
human-compatible surroundings or will it see service in zero-
gravity or other such harsh environment? Is the droid a player 
character? Or will the droid be the tool of various characters? By 
answering questions like this — subject to gamemaster approval 
— the new droid will be more interesting in the course of the 
roleplaying campaign.

Time Taken

Much of the information in this chapter will refer the reader 
to a difficulty number. Except where noted, these skill checks 
will require a certain amount of time to complete as well. In 
addition, certain modifications require more time than others: 
SkillWare (the programming a droid carries) is easier to modify 
than TraitWare (the actual physical components that make up a 
droid). Use the following chart to determine the length of time 
any particular task will take.

Difficulty
Very Easy 
Easy
Moderate
Difficult
Very Difficult
Heroic

SkillWare
1 hour
2 hours
5 hours
24 hours
72 hours
1 week

TraitWare
2 hours
12 hours
24 hours
72 hours
1 week
2weeks

Gamemaster Note: The above estimates are fairly general; if 
a character rolls particularly well (or very badly), vary the Time 
Taken as appropriate.

THE DROID CHASSIS

TraitWare

After deciding upon the droid’s intended function, it must be 
fit into one of the primary five degrees. (For example, a protocol 
unit would use a third degree chassis, an astromech droid would 
use a second degree chassis, and so on.)

Once the droid’s degree has been determined, the engineer 
must purchase TraitWare for the droid; this is called “outfitting 
the chassis.” Trait Ware purchased in this fashion (the creation 
of a new droid type) is considered to be “hardwired” into the 
droid, and is the basic framework for all droids of this type. Note 
that TraitWare may be purchased either by full die, or by pips. 
Current technology limits any attribute to 10D (though it is pos­
sible — not recommended, but possible — that the droid charac­
ter may have attributes with a die code of 0D).

Example:  Jeff’s character, Dug, wants to build an 
astromech unit similar to R2-D2. Dug wants his droid 
— PR6-3 — to have the following attributes:  Knowl­
edge  2D,  Mechanical  2D+1,   and  Technical  3D.   (All 
other attributes will have 1D each.)

Jeff cross-references the degree of his droid (in this 
case,   a   second   degree   droid),   with   the   specific 
attribute he is purchasing. (See “Attributes & Skills”).

According to the TraitWare Cost Chart, edge dice 
cost 300 credits apiece. Since Jeff wants his droid to 
have 2D in  Knowledge, he multiplies the 300 credits 
by 2 for a total of 600 credits.

Mechanical dice for a second degree droid cost 150 
credits;  Mechanical  “pips”   for   such   droids   cost   50 
credits apiece. Jeff wants PR6-3 to have  Mechanical 
2D+1 so he must multiply the base cost for Mechani­
cal dice (150) by 2, for a total of 300 credits; the “+1” 
costs an additional 50 credits, bringing the total for 
the droid’s Mechanical die code to 350 credits.

Technical  dice for a second degree droid are also 
150 credits apiece. Jeff want his droid to have a Tech­
nical die code of 3D; he multiplies the base cost of the 
die (150 credits) by the number of dice desired (3D) 
for a total of 450 credits.

Finally, Jeff wants his droid to have 1D in all other 
attributes. According to the chart, it costs 300 credits 
for 1D in  Dexterity, 300 credits for 1D in  Perception, 
and 350 credits for 1D in  Strength. The total cost of 
these attributes is 950 credits.

NOTE TO GAMEMASTERS

The process of selecting a droid chassis and purchasing 
SkillWare and TraitWare is a fairly “quick and dirty” system. 
The  prices  on  the  accompanying  SkillWare  and  TraitWare 
tables reflect the cost of any programming modules as well
 as physical components of the droid. These are still gener 
al  guidelines,  however;  if  the  gamemaster  does  not  want 
the  characters  to  construct  the  droid,  it  is  possible  that 
parts are not available, or are so scarce that the price of 
constructing the new unit is prohibitive.

TRAITWARE COST CHART - PER DIE

Attribute
Dexterity
Knowledge
Mechanical
Perception
Strength
Technical

First Degree
300
150
300
225
350
150

TRAITWARE COST CHART - PER PIP

Attribute
Dexterity
Knowledge
Mechanical
Perception
Strength
Technical

First Degree
100
50
100
75
150
50

TRAITWARE INSTALLATION DIFFICULTIES

Second Degree
300
300
150
300
350
150

Second Degree
100
100
50
100
150
50

Third Degree
300
150
325
200
400
325

Third Degree
100
50
110
65
135
110

Fourth Degree
150
350
300
250
200
400

Fourth Degree
50
150
100
85
65
135

Fifth Degree
250
400
250
350
150
200

Fifth Degree
85
135
85
150
50
65

Attribute
Dexterity
Knowledge
Mechanical
Perception
Strength
Technical

First Degree
Heroic
Difficult
Very Difficult
Moderate
Very Difficult
Moderate

Second Degree
Heroic
Very Difficult
Moderate
Difficult
Very Difficult
Moderate

Third Degree
Very Difficult
Moderate
Difficult
Moderate
Heroic
Very Difficult

Fourth Degree
Moderate
Heroic
Very Difficult
Difficult
Moderate
Very Difficult

Fifth Degree
Difficult
Heroic
Very Difficult
Moderate
Moderate
Very Difficult

The total cost for Jeff’s droid design is fairly steep: 
600   credits   for  Knowledge  dice,   350   credits   for 
Mechanical  dice, 150 credits for  Technical  dice, and 
950   credits   for   the   remaining   attributes,   bringing 
PR6-3’s total cost to 2,350 credits!

Because Dug is purchasing this TraitWare for the 
creation of a completely new droid, Jeff does not have 
to roll to install it.

Optional Rule:  The above rules assume that the character is 
ordering  a  chassis   from  a   manufacturer  of  some   type.  If  the 
player   and   gamemaster   agree,   you   may   wish   to   follow   the 
installation rules in “Upgrading TraitWare” to build a droid from 
scratch. Note that attributes are hardwired to a droid and the 
installation will take double the “normal” installation time.

Upgrading TraitWare

Once   a   droid   chassis   has   been   created,   the   hardwired 
attributes are unchangeable. Through great difficulty an owner 
may choose to attempt to improve a droid’s attributes by pur­
chasing  and  installing  additional   TraitWare.   TraitWare  used   in 
this manner is considered “soft installed” and is therefore sub­
ject to erasure during memory wipes.

TraitWare is purchased on datacards that contain TraitWare 
information. Each card holds enough information to boost the 
droid’s attribute by one pip, and is the same cost as purchasing 
an additional pip for chassis construction (as shown above). It is 
necessary to install the datacard using (A) droid engineering. If a 
character attempts to install  a TraitWare datacard with  droid  
repair  (rather than  (A) droid engineering) the difficulty for the 

attempt is increased by two levels. One (A) droid engineering roll 
must be made for each datacard the character is attempting to 
install onto the droid.

When a character attempts to install information from a dat­
acard, the information is erased from the card as it is transferred 
to the droid. Once installed, the datacard is useless and should 
be discarded. If the roll is successful, the pip is added to the 
attribute. If the roll fails, no pip is added and a new datacard 
must   be  purchased  to  attempt   the  installation   process   again. 
There have been rumors that some technicians have been able 
to copy the datacard’s TraitWare to a computer before installa­
tion, insuring that the information will  not be lost. However, 
many  manufacturers   have  incredibly  complex   copy-protection 
measures   for   such   datacards,   so   any   would-be   droid   slicer 
should be exceedingly cautious about such attempts.

OUTFITTING THE CHASSIS

SkillWare

Once the chassis is designed, the character can now purchase 
and   install   SkillWare.   These   programs   are   readily   available   in 
most portions of the galaxy and (for the most part) are fairly 
easy to install. SkillWare allows a character — and in some cases 
the droid itself — to upgrade old systems and install new ones.  
(In game terms, this means that the droid’s skill die codes are 
increased.)

SkillWare may or may not require the added installation of 
external hardware to fully utilize the programming. For instance, 
if   a   program   is   installed   which   the   droid   does   not   have   the 

MECHANICAL SKILLWARE

Skill
Archaic starship piloting
Astrogation
Beast riding
Capital ship gunnery
Capital ship piloting
Capital ship shields
Communications
Ground vehicle operation
Hover vehicle operation
Powersuit operation
Repulsorlift operation
Sensors
Space transports
Starfighter piloting
Starship gunnery
Starship shields
Swoop operation
Walker operation

PERCEPTION SKILLWARE

Availability
4
2
3
3, R
2, F
2
2
2
2
4
2
2
2
2, F
2, R
2, F
3
4

Cost (per D)
250
200
300
350
150
200
75
75
100
200
100
75
150
200
350
200
250
175

Skill
Bargain
Command
Con
Forgery
Gambling
Hide
Investigation
Persuasion
Search
Sneak

Availability

Cost (per D)

2
3, F
3, R
4, X
2, F
3
2
3
2
3

150
300
300
300
150
175
100
125
150
200

physical   capacity   for,   only   those   elements   that   can   function 
without the hardware will come into play.

Example:  Jeni installs the  languages  skill into her 
R2 unit. Because the R2 unit has no vocabulator, it 
may only understand many different languages, not 
speak them. Jeni solves this problem by adding Indus­
trial Automaton’s R-series Voice Box Adapter

Use   the   SkillWare   Catalog   (found   on   the   next   few   pages) 
when purchasing skills for a droid. Find the degree of droid and 
cross-reference   it   with   the   base   attribute   on   the   SkillWare 
Degree Multiplier Chart. Note that SkillWare is not available in 
pips, only by “D.” The total cost of the SkillWare is the base cost 
from the SkillWare Catalog times the number found on the mul­
tiplier chart.

At the time of creation, a droid chassis is able to accept 4D 

worth of SkillWare for a specific skill.

Note: Current technology limits a droid’s skills to a maximum 

of die code of 13D.

SKILLWARE CATALOG

DEXTERITY SKILLWARE

Skill
Archaic guns
Blaster
Blaster artillery
Bowcaster
Bows
Brawling parry
Dodge
Firearms
Grenade
Lightsaber
Melee combat
Melee parry
Missile weapons
Pick pocket
Running
Thrown weapons
Vehicle blasters

KNOWLEDGE SKILLWARE

Skill
Alien species
Bureaucracy
Business
Cultures
Intimidation
Languages
Law enforcement
Planetary systems
Streetwise
Survival
Value
Willpower

Availability
4, R
3, R
3, X
4, X
4, X
2, F
1
4, X
4, X
4, X
3, R
3, R
3,R
3, X
2
4, R
3, R

Availability
2
1
1
2
3, F
1
2
1
3
2
1
4

Cost (per D)
300
225
250
400
250
200
150
300
250
550
225
175
250
400
75
275
250

Cost (per D)
75
100
75
200
300
75
250
75
350
200
175
300

STRENGTH SKILLWARE

Skill
Brawling
Climbing/jumping
Lifting
Stamina
Swimming

Availability
3, R
3
2
3
2

Cost (per D)
250
75
50
150
200

TECHNICAL SKILLWARE

Skill
Armor repair
Blaster repair
Capital ship repair
Capital ship weapon repair
Computer prog/repair
Demolitions
Droid programming
Droid repair
First aid
Ground vehicle repair
Hover vehicle repair
(A) Medicine
Repulsorlift repair
Security
Space transports repair
Starfighter repair
Starship weapon repair
Walker repair

Installation

Availability
3
2
2
2, F
2
3, R
2
2
2, F
2
2
2, F
2
3, F
2
2
3, F
3

Cost (per D)
175
150
100
125
50
250
75
125
200
100
125
250
150
250
150
150
175
175

Once the price is decided upon, the character constructing/ 
upgrading the droid makes a  droid programming  roll to install 
the SkillWare.  Use the  Time Taken  chart and  the  information 
from the SkillWare Installation Difficulties chart to install.

Example:  Dug  wants to install  the  sensors  Skill­
Ware onto his PR6 unit. The droid is an astromech (a 
second degree droid) and sensors is a Mechanical skill. 
The sensors SkillWare is listed at 75 credits per D in 
the SkillWare Catalog. PR6 has a ×1.5 multiplier for 
Mechanical  skills, so sensors costs 113 credits per die 
(75 × 1.5=112.5, rounded up to 113 credits). Dug pur­
chases 2D worth of sensors to bring PR6’s sensors skill 
to 4D+1; a total cost of 226 credits.

Like TraitWare, SkillWare datacards are erased after installa­
tion. If the droid programming roll is failed, the information on 
the datacard is lost and a new datacard must be purchased.

Example: When Dug attempts to install 2D sensors 
SkillWare   on   his   astromech,   he   rolls   his  droid   pro­
gramming skill twice (one roll per D) against an Easy 
difficulty.  (Installing a  Mechanical  skill   on  a  second 
degree droid is an Easy task.) Dug’s first roll is a “7,” 
allowing 1D of sensors to be installed. His second roll 
isn’t as good; he gets a “1” on his Wild Die, ending up 
with a total of “4.” The second D of  sensors  doesn’t 
install properly and Dug must purchase another D to 
attempt to install it again.

Upgrading SkillWare

Droids,   during   the   course   of   a   gaming   session,   are   given 
Character Points by the gamemaster in much the same way an 
organic player character is. A droid can improve its own skills 
through the use of Character Points provided the following cri­
teria are met:

The droid must have at least 1D of SkillWare installed over 
the governing attribute. For example, a droid with Dexterity 3D 
and  blaster  4D   can   improve   its  blaster  skill   with   Character 
Points. If the droid has  Knowledge  2D and has added no skill 
dice to cultures, 1D of cultures must be purchased and installed 
before the droid is allowed to improve the skill using Character 
Points.

Example:  After   a   time,   PR6   has   gained   several 
Character Points and wants to improve its SkillWare. 
Its  sensors  skill   is   currently   at   4D+1,   2D   over   the 
Mechanical  attribute. PR6 is able to spend Character 
Points normally, increasing its sensors skill to 5D+1.

However, PR6-3 has not added any dice to blaster, 
the droid cannot spend Character Points to upgrade 
its  blaster  die code. Instead, 1D of  blaster  SkillWare 
must be purchased and installed, after which PR6-3 
may   spend   Character   Points   towards   skill   improve­
ment.

EQUIPMENT
AND ATTACHMENTS

Once the droid has had SkillWare installed, it is often neces­
sary to purchase and install equipment and attachments. The 
items that follow allow a droid to better perform its primary 
function, (and some less-than-primary functions).

Equipment

Many droids, like organic creatures, have the ability to pick 
up and use any piece of equipment they encounter (though they 
will not necessarily have the programming to use the equipment 
effectively). Most droids come with standard equipment to facil­
itate their primary programming. Equipment can be purchased 
for a droid in the same manner that it can be purchased for a 
character.

If the droid has any manipulator limbs (hands, graspers, and 
so forth), the droid may simply pick up and use most types of 
equipment, provided the droid has the necessary programming. 
There are times, however, when the droid’s owner will wish to 
make   a   piece   of   equipment   an   integrated   part   of   the   droid. 
When attempting to install a piece of equipment, purchase it as 
you would for any other character. The price of the equipment is 
increased by 25% for “droid-ready” equipment (equipment that 
has been constructed with droid installation in mind).

Characters may install the equipment using droid repair. The 
difficulty   for   installation   is   based   on   the   availability   of   the 
equipment that is to be installed.

If  the equipment  availability contains  two codes  (i.e.,  3,X), 
two droid repair rolls must be made to install the equipment. If 
the  character  attempting to  install  the  equipment  rolls  a  “1” 
result on the Wild Die, the installation attempt fails catastrophi­
cally, destroying the equipment. Any subsequent attempts are 
one difficulty level higher, and these penalties are cumulative.

SKILLWARE DEGREE MULTIPLIERS
First Degree

Attribute
Dexterity
Knowledge
Mechanical
Perception
Strength
Technical

×2.5
×1.5
×3
×2
×3
×1

SKILLWARE INSTALLATION DIFFICULTIES

Attribute
Dexterity
Knowledge
Mechanical
Perception
Strength
Technical

First Degree
Very Difficult
Moderate
Difficult
Easy
Difficult
Easy

Second Degree
×3
×2.5
×1.5
×2
×3
×1

Second Degree
Very Difficult
Difficult
Easy
Moderate
Difficult
Easy

Third Degree

×3
×1
×2.5
×1.5
×3
×2

Third Degree
Difficult
Easy
Moderate
Easy
Very Difficult
Difficult

Attachments

Fourth Degree
×1
×3
×2.5
×2
×1.5
×3

Fourth Degree
Easy
Very Difficult
Difficult
Moderate
Easy
Difficult

Fifth Degree

×2
×3
×1.5
×3
×1
×2.5

Fifth Degree
Moderate
Very Difficult
Difficult
Easy
Easy
Moderate

Equipment installed: The piece of equipment is installed and 

functions normally.

Installation attempt fails: The installation failed, but may be 
attempted again, though subsequent attempts are increased one 
difficulty level; penalties are cumulative.

Equipment  takes  2D damage:  Roll  2D damage against  the 
equipment’s Strength rating. (Normally standard character-scale 
equipment has Strength of 2D to resist such damage.)

Equipment destroyed: The character botched the installation 
attempt and the equipment is damaged beyond repair. If this 
result is obtained after a character rolls a “1” on the Wild Die, 
the failure is doubly catastrophic; a short circuit or other mal ­
function inflicts 4D damage on the droid as well.

Availability
1
2
3
4
F
R
X

Base Difficulty
Easy
Moderate
Difficult
Very Difficult
Difficult
Very Difficult
Heroic

When a piece of equipment is modified or comes with resi­
dent SkillWare (giving the droid a bonus to a skill roll), it is con­
sidered an  attachment. Essentially, equipment is considered to 
be an attachment if it meets any of the following qualifications:

• The equipment has resident SkillWare (i.e. it boosts a droid’s 
skill).

• The equipment provides a special ability or function (such as 
giving the droid a Move rating or a special skill of some sort).

Most attachments  are simply improved or modified equip­
ment, however some attachments are specialized and have clas­
sifications to themselves. These are described below.

Databases

Databases give droids bonus dice to Knowledge  and Techni­
cal skills. Like SkillWare, databases are purchased by 1D at a time 
and must be installed. Unlike SkillWare, the price per die of a 
database is constant for all degree of droids. Once a database is 
installed, it cannot be modified. A droid’s behavioral circuitry 
matrix allows for one database at a time. Attempting to install a 
second database of any type will cause a programming conflict 
and void the effects of both.

Skill roll versus Difficulty
Skill roll ≥ Difficulty
Skill roll < Difficulty

Skill roll+10 < Difficulty

Result
Equipment installed
Installation attempt fails
Equipment takes 2D 

damage

Skill roll ×2 < Difficulty

Equipment destroyed

Database Die Code
+1D
+2D
+3D
+4D
+5D

Base Difficulty
Very Easy
Easy
Moderate
Difficult
Very Difficult

Optional Installation Guidelines:  If greater detail is desired, 
the   gamemaster   can   use   the   above   difficulty   guidelines   to 
determine the success or failure of attempt to install new equip­
ment on a droid.

Only Knowledge and Technical skills may be given bonuses in 
this fashion; however, since databases are attachments, they do 
not have a “degree multiplier” to the price. (In effect, attach­
ments  are  less  expensive  than  upgrading SkillWare and  Trait­
Ware.)

Databases may boost a droid’s skill from +1D to +5D. The cost 
of the database is the base price for the SkillWare per D, as 
found in the SkillWare catalog. Installing the database requires a 
single droid programming roll, using the following difficulties.

Example:  Dug   decides   to   install   a  Knowledge:  
planetary   systems  database   to   his   second   degree 
droid, PR6-3. The database he chooses will give PR6 
+2D to all  planetary systems  rolls. The SkillWare for 
planetary  systems  costs   75  credits   per   die.  Because 
this is an attachment, there is no degree multiplier for 
the price. So the database total is 150 credits. Dug 
must   now   install   the   database.   Because   Dug   is 
installing a +2D database, the difficulty for his droid  
programming roll is Easy.

Locomotion

Most droids move under their own power. A variety of loco­
motive   attachments   are   available   to   provide   a   droid   with   a 
higher Move rating (wheels, legs, treads, and repulsorlifts, for 
example). Each come in a variety of models and Move ratings. 
Legs and wheels are the most common, largely because they are 
relatively inexpensive.

• Wheels: Wheels are less-expensive attachments than legs sim­
ply because they have a more difficult time moving over terrain. 
Any motion that requires a movement roll is one difficulty level 
higher;   Moderate   terrain   becomes   Difficult,   Difficult   terrain 
becomes Very Difficult, and so forth.)

• Legs:  Droid legs react to terrain difficulties in the same way 
any organic’s legs would.

• Treads: Treads make movement over terrain easier (terrain dif­
ficulties are decreased by one level).

• Repulsorlifts: Droids equipped with repulsorlifts have no diffi­
culty over any terrain, though they may need to make move­
ment rolls to maneuver around objects.

LOCOMOTIVE TYPE

Move
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15

Wheels
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
450
500
550
600
650
700
750

Legs
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
900
1,000
1,100
1,200
1,300
1,400
1,500

Treads
150
300
450
600
750
900
1,050
1,300
1,450
1,600
1,750
1,900
2,150
2,300
2,450

Repulsorlift(s)
200
400
600
800
1,000
1,200
1,400
1,600
1,800
2,000
2,200
2,400
2,600
2,800
3,000

Many droid designers use a combination of systems to give 
the droid a larger range of movement. In these cases, the droid 
will usually have two move ratings. If there are two types of  
locomotion on a droid (such as a typical R2 unit, for example), 
and the Move ratings are identical, only one Move will be given.

The installation difficulty for locomotion depends solely on 
the mode purchased. Wheels are Easy to install, legs are Moder­
ate, treads are Difficult, and repulsorlifts are Very Difficult.

Note: Gamemasters may wish to allow their players bonuses 
for having multiple locomotive attachments. For example, mul­
tiple legs may provide the droid with a Move bonus.

Use the table to the lower left to determine the base cost of  
a particular locomotive attachment; all prices are given in stan­
dard credits.

Example: Dug decides that PR6 should have wheels 
as   its   primary   mode   of   locomotion.   He   spends   350 
credits to give PR6 a Move of 7. Because PR6 doesn’t 
have a very high Dexterity, Dug doesn’t want the droid 
to have difficulty moving across rough terrain, so he 
also purchases a repulsorlift with a Move of 3 for 600 
credits.  The  droid  will  have an  easier  time  traveling 
over rougher terrain, though at a slower speed. PR6’s 
Move rating is 7 (wheels); 3 (repulsorlift).

Sensors

Sensors are detection devices that can absorb outside stimuli 
and feed the data to a droid’s main processor for interpretation. 
The   term   “sensors”   encompasses   standard   photoreceptors   (or 
droid “eyes”) and auditory sensors (“ears”) to long range move­
ment and combat sensors. Most droids are equipped with sen­
sors of some kind, visual and auditory being the most common. 
Generally these sensors can detect stimuli within normal human 
range, though many droids have upgraded sensing apparatus.

Other sensors will add dice to a droid’s search skill for speci­
fied target (such as moving targets, organic targets, and so on). 
When purchasing and installing sensors, the character must take 
into account how the specific sensor will aid the droid in per­
forming its duties. A protocol droid has little use for combat 
motion sensors, though a guard droid or scouting droid may find 
such sensitivity necessary. Ocular, olfactory, and audio sensors 
with a standard human range may be purchased for approxi­
mately 100 credits.

Enhanced sensors increase the cost of the attachment. Gen­
eral purpose sensors, or sensors that track five or more types of 
targets are considerably more expensive than standard sensing 
apparatus. Multiply the base cost of such equipment by 10; It is 
usually a better (and cheaper) idea to install secondary or ter ­
tiary sensors systems.

A sensor’s price is based on the amount of dice it adds to the 
droid’s  search  skill.   In   addition,   the   number   of   target   types 
available to the sensing apparatus increases the price. For exam­
ple, a sensor that can only detect one type of target (such as a  
moving target, or a heat source) has no effect on the sensor’s 
base price. A sensor that can track two target profiles doubles 
the  unit’s  cost.  Three  or  more  target  profiles  triples   the  base 
cost, and so on. Use the chart on the next page to determine the 
cost of the sensor to be installed:

SENSOR BASE COSTS
Sensor increases
search skill by:
+1D
+2D
+3D
+4D
+5D

SENSOR COST MODIFIERS
# of Target
Types Available
1
2
3
4
5
6

Cost
150
300
450
600
750

Cost is  increased by:
—
×2
×3
×4
×5
×6

Note: Droid sensors cannot track more than six kinds of tar­

gets.

Example: Dug chooses to purchase a sensor pack­
age that adds +2D to PR6’s  search  when looking for 
objects   at   a   distance   (25   to   50   meters   away),   and 
sources of heat. He multiplies the cost of the 2D (300 
credits) with the number of targets (in this case two), 
to arrive at a final cost of 600 credits.

Not   all   sensors   enhance   the   droid’s  search  skill.   There   are 
some motion sensors which provide a bonus to other skills such 
as  blaster,  dodge,  and so  on.  “Search”  sensors  are  by  far the 
most common however, and providing an extensive list of sen­
sors a droid will possess is far beyond the range of this system. 
Gamemasters can decide on pricing and availability for other 
types of sensors that a character may wish to install on a droid.

DROID EQUIPMENT
AND ATTACHMENTS

The following is a listing of optional attachments and addi­
tional equipment plausibly available for upgrade. Note that this 
is entirely subject to Gamemaster discretion. This is not meant to 
be a cumulative list, nor a controlling rule. Rather it is meant to 
give the droid creature guidelines as to the types of upgrades 
and attachments available.

ARMOR
 CHRYSTADURIUM PLATING 

Model: Techno Union Chrystadurium Armor 
Type: Droid armor plating 
Scale: Character 
Cost: 50,000 
Availability: 3, R 
Game Notes: +1D physical, +3D energy, −1D+2 to Dexterity and 
related skills. Droid armor is installed and integrated into the 
droid’s chassis, and thus cannot be easily donned or removed. 

 DURANIUM BATTLE ARMOR 

Model: Arakyd Industries Heavy Duranium Armor 
Type: Heavy armor plating upgrade 
Cost: 10,000 
Availability: 4, X 
Game Notes: Adds +2D+2 physical and +1D+2 energy protection. If 
the armor is added as an aftermarket upgrade the droid incurs a 
−1D+2 to Dexterity. Droid armor is installed and integrated into 
the droid’s chassis, and thus cannot be easily donned or removed 
before or after battle. 

 DURANIUM PLATING 

Model: Baktoid Combat Automata Duranium D-65 package 
Type: Medium armor plating upgrade 
Cost: 6,400 
Availability: 3, X 
Game Notes: Adds +2D+1 physical and +1D energy protection. If the 
armor is added as an aftermarket upgrade the droid incurs a −1D 
to Dexterity. Droid armor is installed and integrated into the droid’s 
chassis, and thus cannot be easily donned or removed before or 
after battle. 

 DURASTEEL BATTLE ARMOR 

Model: Colicoid Creation Nest Battlesteel c-16 
Type: Medium armor plating upgrade 
Cost: 9,600 
Availability: 3, X 
Game Notes: Adds +2D+1 physical and +1D+1 energy protection. If 
the armor is added as an aftermarket upgrade the droid incurs a 
−1D to Dexterity. Droid armor is installed and integrated into the 
droid’s chassis, and thus cannot be easily donned or removed 
before or after battle. 

 DURASTEEL PLATING 

Model: Baktoid Combat Automata Durasteel P-53 package 
Type: Light armor plating upgrade 
Cost: 3,600 
Availability: 2, R 
Game Notes: Adds +2D physical and +1D+1 energy protection. If the 
armor is added as an aftermarket upgrade the droid incurs a −1D 
to Dexterity. Droid armor is installed and integrated into the droid’s 
chassis, and thus cannot be easily donned or removed before or 
after battle. 

 DURASTEEL SHELL ARMOR 

Model: Baktoid Combat Automata Durasteel D-21 package 
Type: Light armor plating upgrade 
Cost: 1,600 
Availability: 2, R 
Game Notes: Adds +1D+1 physical and +2 energy protection. If the 

armor is added as an aftermarket upgrade the droid incurs a −2 to 
Dexterity. Droid armor is installed and integrated into the droid’s 
chassis, and thus cannot be easily donned or removed before or 
after battle. 

 DURAVLEX SHELL 

Model: Roche Durasteel-Kevlex Alloy Armor 
Type: Droid armor plating 
Scale: Character 
Cost: 1,000 
Availability: 2 
Game Notes: +1D physical and energy, +3D against fire and extreme 
heat, −1D to Dexterity and related skills. Droid armor is installed 
and integrated into the droid’s chassis, and thus cannot be easily 
donned or removed. 

 LAMINANIUM PLATING 

 PLASTEEL SHELL ARMOR 

Model: Tendrandro Arms Laminanium Armor 
Type: Droid armor plating 
Scale: Character 
Cost: 3,000 
Availability: 2, R 
Game Notes: +1D physical and energy, +2D against corrosive acids 
and similar environmental hazards, −1D to Dexterity and related 
skills. Droid armor is installed and integrated into the droid’s chas­
sis, and thus cannot be easily donned or removed. 

 LAMINANIUM HEAVY PLATING 

Model: Tendrandro Arms Laminanium Armor 
Type: Droid armor plating 
Scale: Character 
Cost: 20,000 
Availability: 3, R 
Game Notes: +3D physical and energy, +4D against corrosive acids 

and similar environmental hazards, −1D+2 to Dexterity and related 
skills. Droid armor is installed and integrated into the droid’s chas­
sis, and thus cannot be easily donned or removed. 

 MANDALORIAN SHELL ARMOR 
Model: Custom Mandalorian shell plating 
Type: Heavy armor plating upgrade 
Cost: 8,100 
Availability: 4, X 
Game Notes: Adds +2D+2 physical and +1D+1 energy protection. If 
the armor is added as an aftermarket upgrade the droid incurs a 
−1D+1 to Dexterity. Droid armor is installed and integrated into 
the droid’s chassis, and thus cannot be easily donned or removed 
before or after battle. 

 NEUTRONIUM PLATING ARMOR 

Model: Custom Heavy Neutronium Armor Coating 
Type: Heavy armor plating upgrade 
Cost: 12,100 
Availability: 4, X 
Game Notes: Adds +3D physical and +2D energy protection. If the 

armor is added as an aftermarket upgrade the droid incurs a −2D 
to Dexterity. Droid armor is installed and integrated into the droid’s 
chassis, and thus cannot be easily donned or removed before or 
after battle. 

Model: Baktoid Combat Automata Plast 3c 
Type: Light armor plating upgrade 
Cost: 400 
Availability: 2, F 
Game Notes: Adds +1D physical and +1 energy. Droid armor is 

installed and integrated into the droid’s chassis, and thus cannot 
be easily donned or removed before or after battle. 

 QUADANIUM BATTLE ARMOR 

Model: Colicoid Creation Nest Battlesteel c-16 
Type: Medium armor plating upgrade 
Cost: 4,900 
Availability: 3, X 
Game Notes: Adds +2D+1 physical and +1D energy protection. If the 
armor is added as an aftermarket upgrade the droid incurs a 
−1D+1 to Dexterity. Droid armor is installed and integrated into 
the droid’s chassis, and thus cannot be easily donned or removed 
before or after battle. 

 QUADANIUM PLATING ARMOR 
Model: Baktoid Combat Automata Quad 7a 
Type: Light armor plating upgrade 
Cost: 2,500 
Availability: 2, R 
Game Notes: Adds +2D physical and +1D energy protection. If the 

armor is added as an aftermarket upgrade the droid incurs a −1D 
to Dexterity. Droid armor is installed and integrated into the droid’s 
chassis, and thus cannot be easily donned or removed before or 
after battle. 

 QUADANIUM SHELL ARMOR 

Model: Baktoid Combat Automata Quad 7a 
Type: Light armor plating upgrade 
Cost: 900 
Availability: 2, F 
Game Notes: Adds +1D physical and +2 energy. If the armor is added 
as an aftermarket upgrade the droid incurs a −1 to Dexterity. Droid 
armor is installed and integrated into the droid’s chassis, and thus 
cannot be easily donned or removed before or after battle. 

COMMUNICATIONS & SENSORS
 ANTITHEFT COMLINK LOCATOR 

Type: Traceable distress signaler 
Cost: 100 
Availability: 1 
Game Notes: A droid equipped with an antitheft comlink locator can 
send a distress signal to its master’s comlink with no apparent 
activity by the droid. The distress signal broadcasts no information, 
but it can it be tracked. The signal continues to broadcast if the 
droid is deactivated, but it shuts down if the droid is destroyed.

 ASTROMECH VOICE BOX

Model: Industrial Automaton R-Series Voice Box Adaptor
Type: Astromech verbal attachment
Cost: 250
Game Notes: Allows and R-series droid to speak a specific language 
(language programs run from 25 to 100 credits), with adjustable 
pitch, intonation and accent. Installation requires a Moderate droid 
repair rolls and takes 15 minutes. Removal requires an Easy droid 
repair roll and 15 minutes; failure causes 3D stun damage to the 
droid and randomly eliminates one skill.

 AUDIO ENHANCERS 

Type: Aural boosters 
Scale: Character 
Skill: Perception 
Cost: 2,000 
Availability: 1 

Game Notes: Audio enhancers increase the sensitivity of a droid’s 

aural sensors, enabling it to pick up sounds not normally perceived 
by standard sensors. When eavesdropping or listening for distant 
and ambient sounds, a droid equipped with audio enhancers can 
reroll Perception checks, taking the better of the two results. All 
other Perception modifiers still apply. 

 COMMUNICATIONS COUNTERMEASURE SYSTEM 

Type: Anti-jamming device 
Scale: Character 
Skill: Communications 
Cost: 1,000 
Availability: 3, R 
Game Notes: A communications countermeasure system prevents 

jamming of a droid’s communications. The system broadcasts sig­
nals on multiple frequencies to counteract interference, granting 
the droid a +2D communications bonus to overcome communica­
tions jamming. 

 COMMUNICATIONS JAMMER 
Type: Communications jamming device 
Scale: Character 
Skill: Communications 
Cost: 5,000 
Availability: 3, X 
Game Notes: The signal jammer emits signals at multiple frequencies 
to interfere with any comlink signals within a 1-kilometer radius of 
the droid. The droid must make Very Difficult communications roll 
to successfully jam any incoming or outgoing comlink signals. The 
device also grants the droid a +2D computer programming/repair 
bonus to slice into a computer system and shut it down. The droid 
also gets the +2D bonus to maintain that status if any slicers 
attempt to stop the jamming. 

 INTERFERENCE GENERATOR 
Type: Droid eavesdropping deterrent 
Cost: 2,500 (deluxe version: 6,000) 
Availability: 2, R 
Game Notes: A droid with an interference generator emits a 3-meter 
wide bubble of low-frequency sound that interferes with any lis­
tening equipment such as bugs, microphones, or other audio 
recording devices. The deluxe version also interferes with video and 
holographic recording devices. Anyone eavesdropping or reviewing 
recordings of targets protected by an interference generator must 
make a Heroic search or communications roll to pick up even scat­
tered words and phrases. 

 INTERNAL COMLINK

Model: Fabritech “VoxLink” Internal Comlink
Type: Basic droid internal comlink
Scale: Character
Skill: Communications
Cost: 100
Availability: 2
Game Notes: The VoxLink has a broadcast and reception range of 50 
kilometers in clear weather. It can monitor up to 10 frequencies 
simultaneously.

 SCOMP-LINK

Model: Cybot Galactica Nexus Scomp-link
Type: Computer interface
Scale: Character
Skill: Computer programming/repair
Cost: 800
Availability: 2
Game Notes: The scomp-link allows information transfer from a droid 
to virtually any type of data-storage device (such as a computer, 
dataplaque or datapad). In addition, the scomplink allows a droid 
to search computer networks for information (adding +1D to com­
puter programming/repair rolls).

 SENSOR BOOSTER

Type: Sensor range booster
Skill: Sensors
Cost: 200
Availability: 1
Game Notes: A sensor booster is a droid enhancement that extends 

the range of its sensors to a maximum of 2 kilometers, if the droid 
has a sensor pack installed.

 SENSOR COUNTERMEASURE PACKAGE 

Type: Droid sensor mask 
Scale: Character 
Skill: Sensors 
Cost: 1,000 
Availability: 3, F or X 
Game Notes: A sensor countermeasure package broadcasts signals 
that interfere with incoming sensor signals. It allows a droid to 
make an opposed sensors roll to avoid detection from scanners. 

 SPACE-BEACON LAUNCHER 

Type: Space beacon deployment mechanism 
Cost: 5,000 (beacons 300) 
Availability: 2 
Game Notes: Space beacons are 25-cm long broadcast devices used 
to mark specific locations or to help navigate through hazardous 
areas of space. A beacon’s signal can be picked up throughout an 
entire star system with an Easy sensors roll. The space beacon 
launcher enables a droid to quickly position space beacons while in 
flight. The system can carry 12 beacons. Additional storage can be 
added, increasing the cost of the launcher by 10% for each addi­
tional beacon (up to a maximum of 24 beacons). 

 WEAPON DETECTOR 

Type: On-board weapon detection scanner 
Skill: Search 
Cost: 1,500 
Availability: 2 
Game Notes: Adds +2D to any search roll to detect tell-tale high-fre­
quency, energy and chemical signatures of weapons/explosives. 

 YV SENSOR PACKAGE 

Model: Tendrando Arms YV Sensor Package 
Type: Yuuzhan Vong detecting sensor 
Scale: Character 
Skill: Sensors 
Cost: 1,000 
Availability: 3 
Game Notes: Grants a +5D sensors bonus against a Yuuzhan Vong’s 
sneak or con: disguise to detect within a 20-meter radius, even if 
utilizing an ooglith masquer.

LOCOMOTION

 CLIMBING CLAWS

Model: Aro droid climbing claws 
Type: Droid friction-coated hands 
Skill: Climbing/jumping 
Cost: 200 
Availability: 2 
Game Notes: Adds +1D to all climbing rolls. 

 DIGGING CLAWS 

Type: Droid digging claws 
Skill: Strength: digging 
Cost: 500 
Availability: 2 
Game Notes: A droid with digging claws gains a burrow speed equal 
to one-half its Move (rounded down). It can move at full burrow 
speed through solid stone and half this rate through transparisteel. 

 GYROSCOPIC STABILIZERS 

Type: Droid stabilizers 
Cost: Move × 100 
Availability: 2 
Game Notes: Droid stabilizing packages are series of gyros and 

hydraulics that provide greater stability to the droid. They provide 
a +2D bonus to Dexterity when making any roll to resist being 
knocked or falling prone. 

 JUMP SERVOS 

Model: Arakyd Industries servo upgrade 
Type: Enhanced locomotion system 
Skill: Climbing/jumping 
Cost: 550 
Availability: 2 
Game Notes: Adds +1D+2 to all jumping rolls. 
Locked Access 
Model: Kalibac Industries Secure Shut Down 
Type: Protected droid deactivation system 
Cost: 50 
Availability: 1 
Game Notes: Locked access circuits prevent the droids shut-down 

switch from being accessed by just anyone. The locked access sys­
tems move the activation and deactivation switches to inside the 
droid’s chassis. Thus, one must disable or subdue hostile droids 
before shutting them down. 

 MAGNETIC FEET

Model: Cybot Galactica a-550 Magnas 
Type: Magnetic locomotion appendages 
Cost: 185 
Availability: 1 
Game Notes: Allows droids to move normally across unstable or 

slanted metallic surfaces, like a ship’s exterior. Only droids with 
wheel, legs, or tread locomotion systems may be fitted with this 
kind of appendage. 

 MAGNETIC HANDS 

Type: Magnetic droid appendage 
Cost: 100 
Availability: 2 
Game Notes: When used in conjunction with magnetic feet, magnetic 
hands provide a +1D bonus to any climbing/jumping roll when 
scaling portions of a starship’s hull. Also, the combination of mag­
netic hands and feet adds +5 to the difficulty of any attempt to 
knock the droid off a ship’s hull. 

 UNDERWATER DRIVE 

Type: Droid aquatic propulsion 
Scale: Character 
Skill: Strength: swimming 
Cost: Desired underwater move speed × 215 
Availability: 3 
Game Notes: The underwater drive allows a droid to move easily 

underwater. The cost is dependent on the speed of the drive pur­
chased, the cost is 215 times the movement speed when swim­
ming. For example, a drive with a speed of 5 would cost 1075 
credits. Models are only available in a Move between 1 and 15. 

NAVIGATION
 ASTROGATION BUFFER

Model: Cybot Galactica “Lifeline” Astrogation Buffer
Type: Nav data backup system
Scale: Character
Skill: Computer programming/repair
Cost: 1,300
Availability: 2, F

Game Notes: An astrogation buffer can store one set of nav coordi­
nates indefinitely; note that any attempts to load more than one 
set of coordinates into the buffer will fail, the newest data over­
writing the older information. A scomp-link (and a Moderate com­
puter programming/ repair roll) allows this data to be downloaded 
into a nav computer, after which the  information is deleted.

 AUTOMAP 

Type: Terrain scanner 
Skill: Search 
Cost: 1,000 
Availability: 1 
Game Notes: An automap system actively scans the area within a 20-
meter radius of a droid in which it is installed, granting a +2D 
search bonus. The scan reveals terrain, atmospheric conditions, 
electromagnetic signatures, and lifeforms. However, an automap 
scan cannot penetrate solid objects such as walls and closed doors. 
The scan also includes navigational information, such as the droid’s 
direction and speed when readings were taken as well as global 
coordinates if the droid can establish a link to an orbiting satellite 
or starship. 

 INTERNAL REFERENCE SYSTEM

Model: SoroSuub “AutoTracker” Droid GPS Module
Type: Global positioning system
Scale: Character
Cost: 4,000 credits
Skill: Computer programming/repair
Availability: 2
Game Notes: It is virtually impossible for a character using an Inter­

nal Reference System to get lost. As long as the device is linked to 
an orbiting source of data (such as a ship’s sensors or a weather 
satellite) the device relays accurate data regarding the user’s loca­
tion, local weather conditions, other moving objects and naviga­
tional hazards. The link requires a Moderate computer 
programming/repair roll once per hour to maintain. The droid using 
the automap link can automatically display this information on a 
datapad (with a scomp-link) or project it on any on-board imaging 
systems it possesses.

TOOLS
 CARGO WINCH

Model: Utilitech AR5G Cargo Winch
Type: Small cargo-lifting device
Scale: Character
Skill: Lifting
Cost: 400 (for basic unit), 800 (for heavy lifting winch)
Availability: 2
Game Notes: A cargo winch typically comes equipped with 50 meters 
of durasteel cable, and is capable of supporting 80 kilograms 
(though the droid must anchor itself; factors such as unstable or 
uneven ground can increase the lifting difficulty by one level). A 
heavy cargo winch is also available; it performs much like a stan­
dard winch but gives the droid +1D to lifting attempts.

 CIRCULAR SAW

Model: Industrial Automaton Type 10 Cutting Saw
Type: Circular saw
Scale: Character
Skill: Any appropriate repair skill; use melee combat: circular saw in 

combat

Cost: 500 (for external model), 1,200 (for retractable internal model; 

droid must be a minimum of 0.3 meters long/tall)

Availability: 2
Game Notes: The type 10 cutting saw does 4D damage and has a 

range of 0.3 meters. It can be used in combat, though the device’s 
limited range and damage make it an impractical weapon at best.

 FINE WORK GRASPER ARM

Model: Varies widely
Type: Droid appendage
Scale: Character
Skill: Lifting
Cost: 350 credits
Availability: 2
Game Notes: Fine work grasper arms are retractable, folding into a 
small compartment in the droid’s chassis. The arm extends up to 
0.5 meters and has servo-boosted mechanisms in the joints and 
“fingers” (which allow the droid to type or manipulate small 
objects). There are a number of types available, some tipped with 
claws or pincers, others with three- or five-fingered “hands.”

 HEAVY GRASPER ARM

Model: Varies widely
Type: Droid appendage
Scale: Character
Skill: Lifting
Cost: 550 credits
Availability: 2
Game Notes: Heavy grasper arms are retractable, folding into a small 
compartment in the droid’s chassis. The arm extends up to 0.5 
meters and has servo-boosted mechanisms in the joints and “fin­
gers” (which allow the droid to type or manipulate small objects 
and add +2D to lifting attempts). There are a number of types 
available, some tipped with claws or pincers, others with three- or 
five-fingered “hands.”

 INTERNAL GRAPPLE GUN 

Type: Magnetic grappling hook thrower 
Scale: Character 
Skill: Missile weapons 
Cost: 200 
Availability: 2 
Range: 2-15/35/100 
Game Notes: The internal grappling gun allows a droid to fire a mag­

netic grappling hook with 15 meters of ultra-thin cord. An external 
magazine allows the droid to carry an additional 100 meters of 
cord. The cord can be detached from the droid as a free action. 

 MULTI-FUNCTION APPARATUS 
Type: Multiple tool droid appendage 
Cost: 80 
Availability: 1 
Game Notes: This appendage can incorporate up to 3 tools or 

weapons. Only one can be used at a time, but switching between 
them is a free action. 

 QUICK-RELEASE COUPLING 

Type: Detachable appendage-tool interface 
Cost: 50 (appendage), 10 (for each tool) 
Availability: 1 
Game Notes: By installing a quick-release coupling to both a droid’s 
appendage and to any tools it may use, the droid or its owner can 
easily and quickly replace installed tools. Attaching a specialized 
tool and detaching a tool each count as an action, but require no 
rolls. 

 WELDING LASER

Model: Drever Corporation HLAutomata-Assisted Welding Laser
Type: Welding tool
Scale: Character
Skill: Any appropriate repair skill; use blaster: welding laser in combat
Cost: 1,200 credits
Availability: 2
Game Notes: The HL welding laser is a small, versatile tool designed 

for ship-based repair efforts. The laser is small (5 cm long), 
attached to an external blaster power cell that can be strapped to 
a droid. The laser has a short range (3 centimeters) but is extreme­

ly powerful (5D+2 damage); the welding beam lasts for 10 rounds. 
If there is no power cell available, the laser can be powered for 
short periods of time by the droid’s own energy source; such a 
hook-up requires 1D rounds and a Moderate droid repair roll. The 
beam will last for 5 rounds if powered by the droid. If the droid 
attempts to run the beam for longer periods of time, it must make 
a Moderate stamina or Strength roll (whichever is higher); if the 
droid fails the roll, it takes 2D damage each round until the beam 
is deactivated. (Regardless, the beam will only last for a maximum 
of 10 rounds.)

DEFENSIVE ACCESSORIES
& WEAPONS
 BLASTER RECHARGE INTERFACE 

Type: Power pack coupler 
Scale: Character 
Cost: 300 
Availability: 1, F 
Game Notes: This hand accessory enables a droid to recharge a stan­
dard blaster pack. The droid can plug in and transfer energy to the 
power pack in three rounds. Recharging a power pack drains ener­
gy from the droid, depleting it in 1 to 10 recharges, depending on 
the droid model. 

 CONCEALED VIBROBLADE

Model: Varies widely
Type: Concealed melee weapon
Scale: Character
Skill: Melee combat, melee parry
Cost: 500 credits (basic version), 800 credits (sensor-resistant)
Availability: 2, X
Difficulty: Moderate
Damage: Strength+3D (Max: 6D+2)
Game Notes: A concealed vibroblade is typically housed in the wrist 

or finger on humanoid droids. The basic version is not undetectable 
(an Easy sensors roll reveals the weapon), though a more-expen­
sive, sensor-masked version is available (requires a Difficult sen­
sors roll to detect the weapon).

 DROID SHIELDS 

Type: Protective shield upgrade 
Cost: See chart below * 
Availability: 3, X 
Game Notes: Once a droid has taken damage level of Damaged (the 
droid equivalent of Wounded) or greater, the energy shield are 
blown. The shield may be activated again with a moderate droid 
programming roll. 

* The Strength bonus to resist physical and energy damage determines 

the cost of the shield. 

Bonus
+2
1D+2
2D+1
3D

Cost 
2,500 
5,000 
7,500 
10,000 

 ELECTRIC DEFENSE GRID 

Type: Exterior droid defense mechanism 
Scale: Character 
Cost: 3,000 
Availability: 2, R or X 
Game Notes: The electric defense grid is installed into the droid’s 
armor or outer casing. Whenever a physical melee weapon or a 
brawling attack makes contact with the droid, the attacker takes 
3D energy damage. 

 HIDDEN HOLSTER 

Type: Concealed blaster holster 
Scale: Character 
Skill: Blaster 
Cost: 500 
Availability: 2, X 
Game Notes: Installed in a droid’s leg, the hidden holster can hold a 
small weapon. As a free action, the droid can activate the holster, 
which opens up, providing access to the weapon. It adds +2 to the 
droid’s blaster skill when attempting to quickdraw.

 INTERNAL DEFENSES 

Type: Unauthorized access protection system 
Scale: Character 
Cost: 1,500 
Availability: 2, R 
Game Notes: The internal defenses activate when a character 

attempts to access any of the droid’s maintenance panels without 
the droid’s permission. It discharges and electric shock that does 
3D damage to the invader, but leaves the droid unharmed. The sys­
tem remains active until it is disabled (Very Difficult security or 
droid repair roll, 1 hour of work), or until its power is depleted 
after 10 attacks. 

 MICRO SHIELD 

Type: Collapsible mini energy shield 
Scale: Character 
Skill: Melee parry 
Cost: 600 
Availability: 3, F 
Game Notes: If the droid makes a melee parry roll higher than the 

attacker’s blaster roll, the droid has placed the force shield in the 
way and gains +1D to resist the energy damage. The shield is 
designed to be installed on a droid’s arm, but a hand-held version 
is available for 400 credits, which can run continuously for 1 hour 
on a single energy cell. 

 ONBOARD BLASTER

Model: Varies widely
Type: Concealed energy weapon
Scale: Character
Skill: Blaster
Ammo: 100
Cost: 1,200 (basic), 1,600 (sensor-resistant), 25 credits (power pack)
Availability: 3, X
Range: 3-10/30/120
Damage: 4D
Game Notes: Onboard blasters vary widely; the above stats are aver­
age. A basic version is visibly mounted on the droid and can be 
easily detected. A basic version possesses no sensor-masking or 
camouflage of any kind (an Easy sensors roll will detect the 
weapon). A sensor-resistant version is also available, making the 
weapon much harder to detect; a Very Difficult sensors roll or a 
Heroic search or Perception roll is needed to find the blaster. 
(Mounting a blaster on a droid’s exterior is also possible, though 
the weapon can easily be detected by the naked eye; base cost for 
such a blaster is 800 credits.) The damage code of the weapon can 
be increased +1D for every 400 credits the owner spends (maxi­
mum of 6D).

 ONBOARD FLAME PROJECTOR

Model: Varies widely
Type: Droid-operated flame projector
Scale: Character
Skill: Missile weapons
Ammo: 10
Cost: 600 credits (basic), 1,000 credits (sensor-resistant), 200 credits 

(additional ammo canisters)

Availability: 3, X
Fire Rate: 1/2

Range: 3-4/5/7
Fire Rate: 5D (first round, 3D for next five rounds unless extin­

guished)

Game Notes: The basic version of the flame projector is detectable 

with an Easy sensors roll or a Moderate search or Perception total. 
The sensor-resistant version can be detected with a Difficult sen­
sors roll or a Very Difficult search or Perception roll. A droid 
equipped with this type of weapon is susceptible to corrosion 
damage if the chemical tank that fuels the flame projector is dam­
aged. (The chemical does 3D damage each round until it is washed 
off.) Internal tanks can be damaged if the droid is incapacitated. 
External tanks can be ruptured by stray blaster shots or physical 
blows; treat them as if they have Strength 3D to resist damage.

 ON BOARD GRENADE LAUNCHER

Model: Varies widely
Type: Concealed grenade launcher
Scale: Character
Skill: Missile weapons
Ammo: 3
Cost: 800 (standard), 1,200 (sensor-resistant)
Availability: 3, X
Fire Rate: 1/2
Range: 5-25/100/250
Damage: Varies by grenade type
Game Notes: The droid grenade launcher cannot be equipped on 

droids smaller than 1 meter; targeting circuitry and the size of the 
weapon make such installation impossible. The basic version of the 
weapon can be detected with a Moderate sensors roll or a Difficult 
search or Perception roll. The sensor-resistant version requires a 
Difficult sensors roll or a Very Difficult search or Perception roll to 
detect.

 PROJECTILE HANDS 

Type: Launching projectile droid appendage 
Scale: Character 
Skill: Missile weapons: projectile hand 
Cost: 200 (installation: 250) 
Availability: 2, F 
Range: 2/7/12 
Damage: 3D+2 
Game Notes: Projectile hands can be used to attack a target or to 

knock a blaster away. 

 ROCKET ARM 

Model: Custom missile arm 
Type: Concealed missile launcher 
Scale: Character 
Skill: Missile weapons: rocket arm 
Cost: 2,000 
Range: 3-30/120/350 
Blast Radius: 0-1/2 
Damage: 5D/3D 
Availability: 2, X 
Game Notes: A rocket arm is a hollowed-out droid arm with servo 

controls replaced by a short-range rocket engine and fuel. The arm 
suffers a −3D penalty for any actions that require fine manipula­
tion, but it can be aimed and fired at a target, acting like a dumb 
missile. Installation of the rocket arm requires a Difficult droid 
programming/repair roll. If the roll fails by 5 or more, the detach 
system is faulty and, when fired, the rocket will remain attached, 
detonating the following round. 

 SHIELD EXPANSION MODULE 
Type: Shield range extension upgrade 
Skill: Shields 
Cost: see chart below 
Availability: 3, X 
Game Notes: A shield expansion module allows a droid to extend the 
radius of its shields to provide protection to adjacent characters. 
The droid must make a Moderate shields roll to extend its shield to 

a single fire arc. Human-sized droids can only extend their shield 
to one arc at a time, though larger droids can install a second 
module. The cost of the module is dependent on the shield genera­
tor it has installed. Consult the chart below: 

Installed shield
+2
1D+2
2D+1
3D

Expansion Module Cost 
250 
500 
750 
1,000 

 TASER 

Type: Droid stun weapon 
Scale: Character 
Skill: Firearms: taser / melee combat 
Cost: 250 
Availability: 2, F 
Range: 0-2/4/7 
Damage: 4D stun/ion damage 
Game Notes: A droid taser fires two small projectiles attached to 

long, thin wires that deliver an electric charge that incapacitates 
an organic target’s nervous and muscular systems, or interferes 
with a droid’s systems like an ion gun. Additionally, a taser can be 
used as a melee weapon like an electroshock probe. 

GENERAL ACCESSORIES
 COLLAPSIBLE CONSTRUCTION 
Type: Collapsing droid modification 
Cost: 2,000 
Availability: 2 
Game Notes: This structural modification allows a droid to fold and 

collapse in order to be stored in places where it would not normal­
ly fit. The collapsed state decreases the droid’s size up to 45%, and 
it enters a standby mode while collapsed. 

 CONCEALED ITEM 

Type: Hidden droid item modification 
Scale: Character 
Cost: Item cost + compartment cost x2 
Availability: 2, X 
Game Notes: Concealed items are functioning items installed into a 
droid, but are either hidden or disguised to appear as something 
else. For example, a blaster may be hidden inside an arm or dis­
guised as a beam cutter. Discovering a concealed item requires a 
Very Difficult search roll. 

 COURIER COMPARTMENT 

Type: Hidden cargo space 
Cost: 200 (plus 200 for optional toaster system) 
Availability: 2, X 
Game Notes: Courier compartments are hidden storage spaces which 
can be installed in the droid’s torso, head or limbs. The cargo space 
varies with the size of the droid. Detecting a courier compartment 
requires a Very Difficult search roll. A common accessory in a 
courier compartment is a toaster, which destroys the contents of 
the compartment with a brief blast of plasma energy triggered by 
the droid. 

 CREDIT READER 

Type: Droid credit analyzer 
Skill: Business 
Cost: 50 
Availability: 2, F 
Game Notes: Whether a line of credit or hard currency, a credit reader 
determines whether a target’s credits are real or if a line of credit 
exists for that being. The credit reader gives the droid a +2D bonus 
against any forgery rolls made to forge credit accounts or financial 
documents. The droid can also instantly count any sum of hard 
credits presented to it as a free action. 

 EARPHONE BINARY-TO-BASIC TRANSLATOR 

Type: Droid language translator 
Cost: 20 (headphone), 100 (earbud) 
Availability: 2 
Game Notes: This translator unit is installed on a droid’s Basic-output 
jack, and converts audible Binary into audible Basic, transmitting 
the spoken words to an earphone receiver. The less expensive ver­
sion requires a large headphone set, while the more expensive ver­
sion transmits to an earbud receiver that can only be detected 
with a Difficult search roll. 

 EMERGENCY OXYGEN SUPPLY 
Type: Emergency respiration system 
Cost: 200 
Availability: 2 
Game Notes: Occasionally installed on rescue or medical droids, an 
emergency oxygen tank carries enough breathable air for 30 min­
utes. The oxygen may be attached to a character via a breath 
mask, or may be used to recharge a vac suit. 

 HIDDEN CORE 

Type: Core function backup system 
Cost: 200 
Availability: 2, R 
Game Notes: A hidden core allows a droid to retain all of its pro­
gramming, skill improvements, and personality after a memory 
wipe. 1D days after the memory wipe, the droid can try to make a 
Difficult droid programming/repair roll in order to restore its back­
up. If the roll fails, the droid may attempt it again every 1D days. 
In order to discover a hidden core, a character must be actively 
searching for something suspicious in the droid and succeed in a 
droid programming repair roll against the droid’s willpower, or 
against a Heroic difficulty if the droid has spent an extra 200 cred­
its for the deluxe installation. 

 HOLOCAM

Model: Neuro-Saav TL3 Holo-Imaging Package
Type: Droid recording device
Scale: Character
Skill: Sensors
Cost: 2,500 (basic unit)
Availability: 2
Game Notes: The TL3 holocam is designed specifically for droids; it is 
a small processing device that can be tied into the droid’s existing 
optical modules, allowing a complete first-person view from the 
droid’s perspective (up to 20 meters, limited by droid’s line-of-
sight). Images can be downloaded to datacards, dataplaques or 
holoprojectors, allowing playback and storage of the recording. The 
basic TL3 ties into the droid’s existing optics, though only human-
range recordings are possible. For an additional 200 credits per 
upgrade, the TL3 can be adapted to record with the following 
improvements: macrobinocular hookup (improves range of record­
ing to 100 meters), all-environment (360 degree recording, in a 
10-meter radius; playback appears as if the viewer is “with” the 
droid and can look in any direction to see what else is nearby), 
thermal, motion sensor, and UV hookup (records in “night-vision” 
mode with thermal/UV hookups; focuses on moving objects with 
motion sensor option).

 HOLOGRAPHIC GAME SYSTEM 
Type: Holographic entertainment system 
Cost: 300 
Availability: 1 
Game Notes: The system provides fifteen of the galaxy’s more popular 
games, including dejarik and sabacc. The game uses the droid’s 
holoprojector (sold separately) and does not require a solid surface. 
The game-system processor allows a player to interact with the 
board as if he is actually picking up the holographic playing pieces. 
The system allows ten additional games to be added to its data­
base with a Moderate computer programming/repair roll. 

 HOLOGRAPHIC IMAGE DISGUISER 

Type: Holographic disguise system 
Scale: Character 
Cost: 20,000 
Availability: 3, R or X 
Game Notes: Holographic imagers are a series of holographic projec­
tors installed at various points of the droid’s exterior. The projec­
tors allow the droid to disguise itself by projecting a series of 
images capable of matching the droid’s movements and even syn­
chronizing itself with the droid’s vocabulator. It takes a Very Diffi­
cult search roll to detect the illusion, though sensors, cameras and 
droids get a +2D bonus to detect it. An advanced model, for double 
the price, includes sensor nodes that track a number of other fac­
tors, such as ambient temperature and weather conditions, making 
the image react to those variables. This increases the search diffi­
culty to Heroic, and lowers to +1D the bonus to electronic examin­
ers. 

 HOLOPROJECTOR

Model: SoroSuub G-series Holoprojection Unit
Type: Holoprojector
Scale: Character
Skill: Computer programming/repair
Cost: 300-8,000 credits
Availability: 2
Game Notes: Basic holoprojectors — like those that are standard 
equipment on most R-series astromechs — can project a prere­
corded hologram up to 1.5 meters away, with an image size rang­
ing from 0.5 to 10 meters.

 ID DODGE 

Type: Biometric security countermeasure 
Scale: Character 
Skill: Security 
Cost: 5,000 
Availability: 3, X 
Game Notes: Some automated security systems check biometric data 
before granting access to an area. Droids cannot provide retinal 
scans, fingerprints, or other unique biological features. The ID 
dodge simulates such information, granting a +2D+2 security 
bonus to defeat biometric security systems. 

 IMPROVED COORDINATION CIRCUITRY 

Type: Biometric security countermeasure 
Skill: Varies 
Cost: 1,000 
Availability: 2 
Game Notes: Droid brains work well in concert with each other, and 
improved coordination circuitry enhances this ability. This accesso­
ry links droids’ skill routines, allowing them to aid in tasks more 
effectively. Each circuit is keyed to a specific skill. When a droid 
with improved coordination circuitry aids another droid with the 
circuitry, they gain a +1D+1 bonus to that particular skill. 

 MULTISPECTRUM SEARCHLIGHT 

Type: Multiple spectrum spotlight 
Cost: 100 
Availability: 2 
Game Notes: This spotlight shines visible, infrared, or ultraviolet light, 
negating 1D of low-lighting penalty, with a 6-km range. The light 
may also be used to blind targets within a 10-meter cone. The 
droid makes a Dexterity roll against the targets’ Perception. If the 
droid succeeds, the target stared into the light and is blinded for 
one full round (characters with specialized eye protection are not 
affected). 

 PERSONALITY DOWNLOADER 

Type: Custom-built droid personality override device 
Cost: 5,000 
Availability: 3, X 

Game Notes: This highly illegal device must be plugged into a droid’s 
dataport in order to suppress its original personality, replacing it 
with a pre-programmed one. The attacker must then make a droid 
programming/repair roll against the droid’s willpower. If the droid 
loses, the personality copies itself to the droid’s processor and sup­
presses the existing personality in 5 minutes. The process is imper­
fect, however, and every 10 minutes the original personality can 
make an opposed droid programming/ repair roll against the 
attacker to regain control over the invasive programming. 

 RADIANT HEAT ELEMENT 

Type: Droid heater 
Cost: 200 
Availability: 1 
Game Notes: This enables a droid to radiate heat from its torso, pro­

viding ambient warmth for a living being’s survival in extreme cold 
conditions. The heat can be adjusted to boil water or cook food on 
the droid’s exterior. On its highest setting, it does 2D+1 damage to 
anyone standing next to the droid, or 3D+1 if in contact with the 
heater. 

 REMOTE LIMB CONTROL 

Type: Independent appendage system 
Scale: Character 
Cost: 1,500 (basic) 6,000 (deluxe) 
Availability: 3 
Game Notes: Limbs with the remote control package installed allow 
the droid to remove them while still retaining full control over 
their functions. The limb is fitted with a repulsor unit which gives 
it a flight ceiling of 10 meters and a maximum range of 40 meters 
from the controlling droid. While the basic package only allows the 
droid control over a single detached limb, the deluxe package 
enables multiple limbs to be active at once. 

 REMOTE PROCESSOR

Model: Baktoid Combat Automata Remote Processor 
Type: Remote control processing unit 
Cost: See chart below
Availability: 2, R 
Game Notes: Remote processors allow all droid functions to be con­
trolled from another location. Droids controlled by a remote pro­
cessor cannot think or act independently unless equipped with a 
backup processor. Any stock droid that is modified to be controlled 
by remote processor cannot react as quickly as their internal pro­
cessor and takes a −1D penalty to Perception to determine initia­
tive and −1D to all reaction skills due to communication lag and 
transmission relay time. 

Range Cost 
5km 1000 
50km 10,000 
500km 100,000 
5,000km 1,000,000 

 REMOTE PROCESSOR (BACKUP)
Model: Baktoid Combat Automata TD-12C 
Type: Droid control processing receiver 
Cost: 100 
Availability: 2, R 
Game Notes: Should a remote processor fail, be destroyed, or have its 
signal interrupted, a backup processor allows remote controlled 
droids to carry through on their last transmitted set of instruc­
tions. 

 REMOTE RECIEVER

Model: Baktoid Combat Automata TX-191 Receiver 
Type: Droid control processing receiver 
Cost: 70 
Availability: 2, R 
Game Notes: Remote receivers allow a droid to receive instructions 

from a remote processor. 

 REMOTE RECEIVER JAMMER 
Type: Remote processing disruptor 
Skill: Communications 
Cost: 2,000 
Availability: 2, X 
Game Notes: The jammer incorporates a backpack transmitter and a 

hand-held computer controller. Once activated, the jammer affects 
all droids that rely on a remote processor for operation, within a 
100-meter radius. The operator makes a communications roll 
against the targets’ Perception. A droid that fails the roll is ren­
dered useless, unless it has a backup processor. The jammer opera­
tor must make the opposed roll every round to maintain the 
disruption as the droid’s subroutines attempt to evade it.

 REMOTE RECEIVER SIGNAL BOOSTER

Type: Remote processor receiver booster
Cost: 500
Availability: 3
Game Notes: A droid that relies on a remote processor for operation 
can have its receiving range increased by 50% with the use of a 
signal booster. With a Heroic communications roll, the droid may 
extend that range to 100% farther than the normal range for one 
hour.

 REMOTE STARSHIP STARTER 
Type: Remote vehicle controller 
Cost: 2,800 
Availability: 2, R 
Game Notes: Range is 2 kilometers. Allows a droid to perform basic 
diagnostics and remote pre-flight start-up routines within 5 min­
utes. This allows for immediate takeoff once a character returns to 
his or her ship. 

 SENSOR-SHIELDED STORAGE COMPARTMENT
Model: Illegally-modified Utilitech Droid Storage Module
Type: Sensor-shielded storage compartment
Scale: Character
Cost: 500 credits (external compartment), 8,000 (internal compart­

ment)

Availability: 3, X
Game Notes: Utilitech storage compartments can hold small amounts 
of “cargo.” External “storage packs” are generally magnetically 
sealed to a droid, and require a Difficult droid repair roll to remove. 
These packs are small (20 centimeters long, 10 centimeters, 8 cen­
timeters deep) and can hold objects (such as a comlink, small 
blaster, datapad or medpac) that an owner may wish to retrieve 
later. External compartments are immediately visible but sen­
sor-absorbent material makes it virtually impossible to detect what 
is inside (requires a Very Difficult sensors roll). Internal compart­
ments can be detected with a Very Difficult search or Perception 
roll (or a Difficult sensors roll). Most droids of moderate size (1 
meter or taller can be equipped with a maximum of two compart­
ments).

 SILENCE-BUBBLE GENERATOR 

Type: Sound barrier generator 
Cost: 3,500 
Availability: 2, R 
Game Notes: Silence-bubble generators produce a sound dampening 
barrier around the droid with a 5-meter radius. Someone outside 
the bubble trying to listen into the bubble, and vice-versa, takes a 
−3D penalty to their search roll. 

 SPECIALIZED SUB-PROCESSOR 
Type: Multitasking secondary processor 
Scale: Character 
Skill: Varies 
Cost: 1,000 
Availability: 2 
Game Notes: A specialized sub-processor enables a droid to carry out 

a specific calculation or analysis more quickly or simultaneously 
with other tasks. It grants the droid a single extra action each 
round that can only be used to perform an action related to a sin­
gle skill, chosen at the time the sub-processor is created. This extra 
action does not count when calculation Multiple Action Penalties. 
A droid can only have one specialized sub-processor. 

 STORAGE COMPARTMENT

Model: Utilitech Droid Storage Module
Type: Storage compartment
Scale: Character
Cost: 200 credits (external compartment), 4,000 (internal compart­

ment)
Availability: 2
Game Notes: Utilitech storage compartments can hold small amounts 
of “cargo.” External “storage packs” are generally magnetically 
sealed to a droid, and require a Difficult droid repair roll to remove. 
These packs are small (20 centimeters long, 10 centimeters, 8 cen­
timeters deep) and can hold objects (such as a comlink, small 
blaster, datapad or medpac) that an owner may wish to retrieve 
later. External compartments are immediately visible; internal 
compartments can be detected with a Moderate search or Percep­
tion roll (or an Easy sensors roll). Most droids of moderate size (1 
meter or taller) can be equipped with a maximum of two compart­
ments); smaller droids can be equipped with a single compartment 
(Utilitech custom-manufactures smaller compartments for the 
price of an internal compartment).

 STORAGE COMPARTMENT (SPRING LOADED)

Model: Rim Securities F-9 ejection system 
Type: Storage compartment ejection device 
Cost: 150 
Availability: 2 
Game Notes: Droids with a storage compartment (or a shielded stor­
age compartment) may also have the compartment spring loaded. 
A spring loaded compartment allows the droid to eject a small 
object (no more than 4kg), hurling it up to 8 meters. In order to 
aim the object at a desired location, the droid rolls its thrown 
weapons skill. 

 SURVIVAL KIT 

Type: Droid survival assistance kit 
Cost: 100 
Availability: 2 
Game Notes: Contains a small refrigeration unit, a water recycler and 
dispenser, a rechargeable glow rod, and a fire sparker. Grants +1D 
to the droid master’s survival rolls. 

 TACTICIAN BATTLE COMPUTER 

Type: Battle Computer
Cost: 5,000 (transceiver set: 20) 
Availability: 2, R 
Game Notes: This software package and transmitter can be installed 

on any droid. Additionally, small transceivers must also be installed 
on the ranged weapons used with the package. If the equipped 
droid picks up a weapon not equipped with the associated trans­
ceiver, the tactician battle computer shuts down and requires a 
Very Difficult droid programming/repair roll to be restarted. The 
droid must spend an action to analyze the current battle condi­
tions, transmitting its findings to the sensors installed on the 
weapons of its allies. This grants a +1D bonus to the next ranged 
attack roll made until the following round by a number of allies 
equal to the droid’s number of dice in the tactics skill. 

 VIDEO SCREEN 

Type: Built-in video display 
Cost: 10 credits per square centimeter of screen size 
Availability: 1 
Game Notes: Built-in video screen displays text, translations, diag­

nostics, programming, pictures, and other information. Screen sizes 
vary from 5 to 50 centimeters. 

 VOICE-PRINT COMMAND
 LOCK 

Type: Voice recognition security system 
Cost: 400 
Availability: 1 
Game Notes: With a voice-print com­

mand lock installed, a droid analysis 
the voice of its master and ignores 
commands from anyone else. Get­
ting the droid to obey a recorded 
command by its master requires a 
droid programming roll against the 
droid’s willpower +5. 

PERSONALITY

At the time of activation, some droids are programmed with 
basic   personality   matrices.   A   droid   personality   matrix   begins 
with a primary personality archetype which acts as the basis for 
a droid’s personality. Over time (and without memory wipes) a 
droid’s personality will mature and grow, customizing itself to its 
surroundings.  Matrices   come   in   a   variety  of  types,  much   too 
many to  list  in  this  volume, so when  a player is designing a 
droid, the gamemaster must judge the price and installation dif­
ficulty based on how complex of a personality is intended.

Personality Complexities

There are five basic categories of droid personalities: none, 

simple, elementary, advanced, and complex:

• None: The droid has no need for a personality; it will seldom 
interact with organics. A droid without a personality matrix may 
still communicate with both mechanicals and organics; it will 
simply tend to be cold and mechanical. Many fifth degree droids 
do not come with standard personality matrices.

• Simple:  Droids that come off the assembly line with simple 
personalities are required to be around 
organic beings only on rare occasion. 
Personalities   of   this   type   can   be 
described in a  single word (friendly, 
ornery,   cruel,   timid,   and   so   forth). 
Power   droids   or   some   more 
sophisticated   MSE-6s   —   “mouse 
droids” — have Simple per­
sonality   matrices.   Pro­
gramming   a   simple 
personality   matrix   from 
scratch requires an Moder­
ate  (A)   droid   engineering 
roll, or  a  Difficult  droid  pro­

gramming roll.

PERSONALTY MATRICES

Type
None
Simple
Elementary
Advanced
Complex

Cost
None
150
300
600
900

(A) Droid Engineering 
Difficulty
—
Easy
Moderate
Difficult
Very Difficult

Droid Programming 
Difficulty
—
Very Easy
Easy
Moderate
Difficult

• Elementary: Droids with occasional contact with organics are 
usually   programmed   with   Elementary   matrices.   (Astromech 
droids are usually required only to assist a pilot, hence, they typ­
ically possess an Elementary matrix.) Programming an Elemen­
tary   personality   matrix   from   scratch   requires   a   Moderate  (A)  
droid engineering roll or a Difficult droid programming roll.

• Advanced: Advanced personalities are installed on droids that 
need to interact with organics fairly often. The matrix used usu­
ally provides for limited intelligent conversation with organics, 
sometimes   limited   to   simple   information   transfers   and   other 
pleasantries. Only after the droid has aged for some time will 
the unit display any “depth” of personality. (Medical droids, for 
example, typically have an Advanced matrix). Programming an 
Advanced personality matrix from scratch requires a Very Diffi­
cult  (A) droid engineering roll, or a Heroic  droid programming 
roll.

•   Complex:  The   droid’s   primary   function   is   to   interact   with 
organics regularly. Units that come with this matrix generally 
seem to be completely sentient. (Protocol droids have Complex 
matrices, allowing them to engage in dialogue with organics in 
a   manner   not   unlike   another   organic   being.)   Programming   a 
Complex personality matrix from scratch requires a Very Diffi­
cult  (A) droid engineering  roll, or a Heroic  droid  programming 
roll.

Personality Installation

If   the   designer   is   programming   the   matrix   from   scratch 
(using the difficulty guidelines included in the above descrip­
tions), there is no additional cost to installing the matrix. How­
ever,   since   more-sophisticated   personality   matrices   are 
extremely difficult  to program, the designer may opt to pur­
chase a “ready-made” droid personality. Use the chart above to 
determine both cost and droid programming installation diffi­
culty (note that the designer may use either the (A) droid engi­
neering skill or the droid programming skill; only one skill roll is 
required).

MAINTENANCE SERVICES

Once   a   droid   has   been   built,   purchased,   or   otherwise 
acquired, it is up to the owner to make sure her mechanical 
stays in functional condition. The upkeep of mechanical intelli­
gence is not half as daunting as one might think. “The occasion­
al oil bath, memory wipe, and actuator adjustment makes for a 
long, happy life for your new droid!” reads the New Users Manu­
al that comes with Industrial Automaton’s droids.

While standard maintenance is possible by the common droid 
owner, it is often much easier and less expensive to simply take 
the droid into an authorized center and have the droid serviced.

DROID REPAIR COSTS

Damage Level
Lightly Damaged
Heavily Damaged
Severely Damaged
Nearly Obliterated

Difficulty
Easy (droid repair)
Moderate (droid repair)
Difficult (droid repair)
Difficult ((A) droid engineering)

Cost (Parts)

Cost (Service)

15% of Retail
25% of Retail
35% of Retail
65% of Retail

30% of Retail
40% of Retail
60% of Retail
95% of Retail

Repairs

Droids will inevitably need repairs; like any tool that is used 
heavily, a droid is subject to wear. Owners may attempt such 
repairs themselves or take the unit to a service center. Use the 
following table to determine the difficulty and cost of repairing 
a droid unit.

When repairing a droid, it is not necessary to pay for both 
service   and   parts.   The   service   costs   listed   above   include   any 
parts needed.

Oil Baths

Contrary to popular belief, an oil bath does not actually clean 
the   droid.   Rather,   it  simply   lubricates   the   droid,   allowing  for 
more fluid and accurate movement. This is especially important 
on worlds that have harsh climates such as extreme heat or bit­
ter cold. The droid is dipped into a tub or vat of lubricating oil, 
which loosens any debris and coats the droid with a layer of oil.

Most droid service centers, as well as many starports, have 
facilities   for   oil   bathing   droids.   The   price   of   such   a   service 
depends   greatly   on   the   size   of   the   droid   in   question;   prices 
range from 50 credits for a small droid (such as an astromech) 
to   1,000   credits  for   a   larger   droid  that   is   over   two   or  three 
meters (a standard binary load lifter, for example). Beings and 
companies who own several droids often find it more economi­
cal   to   purchase   a   permanent   oil   bath   to   house   in   their 
workspaces. It should be noted, however, that it is unheard of 
for an oil bath large enough to be able to house a droid any 
larger than speeder scale. Droids larger than this usually require 
a maintenance team to manually oil and clean the droid. Often, 
the maintenance team itself consists of droids.

It is recommended that a droid be given an oil bath twice a 
season, if not more depending on the surrounding environment. 
If in fact a droid does spend a great deal in a harsh environ­
ment, eventually grit and corrosion will begin to effect its physi­
cal abilities. The gamemaster may choose to penalize the droid 
−1 pip from Dexterity for each month a droid spends in a harsh 
environment without receiving an oil bath.

 DROID OIL BATH

Model: Fryil Industries TD series bath
Type: Droid oil bath
Skill: N/A
Cost: 50-1,000 credits (service), 1,500 credits (new, character scale), 

5,000 credits (new, speeder scale)

Availability: 1
Game Notes: Oil baths are used to assist in the cleansing of droid 

movement control actuators. Giving a droid an oil bath negates all 
negative modifiers it had possibly acquired from existing in harsh 
environment for an extended period of time.

Memory Wipes

Erasing a droid’s memory (referred to as “memory wipes” or 
“mindwipes”) has become common practice among many droid 
owners throughout the galaxy. Since many droids are purchased 
used, new owners often decide they don’t want the droid carry­
ing internal baggage from a previous owner. A memory wipe 
will strip the droid’s memory banks of all previous knowledge, 
save for that  hardwired into the droid.  Once its  memory has 
been erased the unit has no recollection of existing before the 
point that erasure took place.

Widespread paranoia over rogue droids has brought the prac­
tice of memory wiping to the forefront over 
the past several centuries. Many local and 
system wide governments require all new or 
used droids to be memory-wiped. The theo­
ry   is   that   a   droid   without   an   extensive 
memory   will   be   easier   to   control.   This 
assumption is true, to a point. If the droid 
came off the assembly line with a predis­
posed negative personality, a memory wipe 
will not change this nature. That particular 
problem can only be addressed by an expe­
rienced droid engineer with a background in 
personality programming. Likewise, a previ­
ous   owner   could   have   hardwired   skills 
deemed illegal into the droid, which would 
not be erased by a memory wipe.

On   the   opposite   end   of   the   spectrum, 
many owners enjoy the companionship that 
can come from owning a droid who has had 
time   to   develop   a   complex   personality. 
These   droids   often   haven’t   had  a   memory 
wipe   for   many   years.   Depending   on   the 

physical age of the unit, some droids have over a hundred years 
of experience to share. Many of the organic owners who would 
subscribe   to   this   philosophy   are   criticized   by   their   peers   for 
endangering themselves  and  others.  This  is  a societal  conflict 
that seems to have no conclusion in sight.

 DROID MEMORY WIPE
Skill: Droid programming
Cost: 50-500 (depending on local fees)
Availability: 1
Difficulty: Difficult
Game Notes: A successful memory wipe returns a droid’s personality 
matrix to its basic configuration, removing any personality devel­
opment that has occurred since activation or its last memory wipe. 
Also, any pips that were added by way of “tinkering” will be lost. 
Only those skills hardwired (by either the factory, a previous owner, 
or the droid itself) will remain intact.

Restraining Bolts

The   use  of  restraint   technology   is   often   specified   in   most 
local criminal codes. Long ago, the Old Republic attempted to 
quell   anti-droid   sentiment   by   requiring   droid   owners   to   fit 
“restraining bolts” to their droids. These bolts are small receivers 
that are attached to the droid, allowing an owner to bypass the 
droid’s motivational programming. By using a signaling device, 
the owner can force the droid to perform certain simple actions. 
Typically, the restraining bolt forces a droid to activate or deac­
tivate itself on command.

 RESTRAINING BOLT

Skill: Droid repair
Cost: 50 credits
Availability: 1
Game Notes: A droid fitted with a restraining bolt must obey com­

mands sent by a “Caller.” The droid cannot resist the effects of the 
restraining bolt.

 CALLER

Skill: Droid programming
Cost: 100-500 credits
Availability: 1
Game Notes: A caller is a compact, short-range signaling device that 
broadcasts directly into a droid’s motivational processor (via a 
restraining bolt). Simple callers can only broadcast simple com­
mands (such as ordering a droid to activate or deactivate). More 
sophisticated callers can transmit commands of greater complexi­
ty. The average range of a caller is 20 meters.

 RENTAL RESTRAINING BOLT
Type: Credit-activated restraining bolt
Cost: 10
Availability: 2
Game Notes: The rental restraining bolt works like a standard bolt, 

except it also has a credit reader. The user must deposit a specific 
number of credits to the credit reader in order to control the droid 
for a specified time. At the end of that time, the droid deactivates 
and does not reactivate until sufficent credits are again deposited.

 DROID REMOTE CONTROL 
Type: Navigation override system 
Cost: 500 
Availability: 2 
Game Notes: An advanced version of the restraining bolt system, the 
remote control allows the owner to use a droid caller to move the 
droid using its own locomotion system. The droid cannot be 
compelled to use any of its other systems or possessions. It simply 
moves as directed at Cautious speed. 

OVERRIDING LIFE
PRESERVATION PROGRAMMING

In the Star Wars universe, droids (with the exception of some 
fourth   degree   models)   are   required   by   Imperial   law   to   be 
equipped with life preservation programming (LPP).

LPP subroutines prevent a droid from experiencing the com­
pulsion to do harm to an organic being. The fact that these pro­
gramming measures are installed is not necessarily a complete 
safeguard against rogue droids, but due to the sophistication of 
programming technology, the likelihood of a droid going rogue 
is lessened a great deal.

Even fourth degree droids, who are by their nature aggres­
sive, are given LPP routines defining when action against organ­
ic life may be taken. Still, there are those who would attempt to 
override the LPP, allowing a droid to participate in combat. This 
is not a simple task by any means.

In game terms, if a character wishes to override a droid’s life 
preservation programming, she must make two successful skill 
rolls, a  droid  programming  roll and a  command  roll. The  droid 
programming roll is based on the degree of the droid, while the 
command roll is an opposed roll versus the droid’s willpower skill 
or Knowledge attribute (whichever is higher).

Gamemasters   may   decide   for   themselves   if   the   two   rolls 
should be made in the same round (causing a multiple skill use 
penalty of −1D), or if the character may take two rounds to per­
form the action.

Droid Programming Override Difficulties

First Degree
Second Degree
Third Degree
Fourth Degree
Fifth Degree

Very Difficult
Difficult
Heroic
Moderate
Difficult

Note   that   not   all   droids   have   LPP   subroutines.   While   the 
Empire mandates this programming be installed in all civilian 
droids, it does not enforce this law outside of the Core Worlds. 
In   the   somewhat   lawless   Outer   Rim   Territories,   for   example, 
many outlaw techs and droid slicers have overridden this pro­
gramming; characters should be made aware that it is possible 
that any droid they encounter could have had its LPP protocols  
erased.

Anyone attempting to determine if a droid has had its LPP 
subroutine overridden must make a successful  droid program­
ming roll  using the difficulties listed above. The attempt takes 
1D minutes.

ADDITIONAL DROID ACCESSORIES
 DROID COMMAND STATION 

Type: Droid command station 
Cost: 10,000 
Availability: 1, F 
Game Notes: A droid command station can be set up in major work 
areas with a large droid labor pool, in large starships, and some­
times in major starports. The command station is generally pass­
word protected, either through manual entry or through a code 
cylinder. It allows an overseer to perform a number of functions 
provided that all of the droids have a comlink or remote receiver. 
The command station can: 
• Maintain active communication with droids, giving them 
instructions for specific tasks. 

• Coordinate actions between the droids, grants a +2D bonus to 
the droid overseer’s command skill. 
• Locate any specific droid within the pool within the droid’s nor­
mal operational ranges; provided the droid has a tracking device 
or restraining bolt installed. 
• Receive detailed information about a droid’s status within the 
labor pool. 
• Perform basic reprogramming of a droid within the system. 
• Automatically translate between Binary and common lan­
guages. 

 DROID BATTLE STATION 
Type: Droid combat station 
Cost: 50,000 per 100 droids 
Availability: 1, R 
Game Notes: Droid battle stations provide the same functionality of 
regular droid command stations, but are used to direct droids in 
combat. They are typically large installations, capable of coordinat­
ing hundreds or thousands of droids of all types. Some droid battle 
stations emulate droid commanders. Typical stats for this droid 
brain are tactics 4D+2 and command 6D, but these vary. 

 DROID RECHARGE STATION 

Type: Droid charging and analysis device 
Cost: 4,000 
Availability: 1 
Game Notes: Droid recharge stations allow a droid to be brought up 
to a full charge in one hour. Many starports and other public loca­
tions have droid recharge stations and allow them for public use 
for a fee of 20 credits. Most recharge stations provide a basic 
diagnostic (Easy droid repair roll) of the droid including its current 
status in terms of damage, and an operational status of all 
appendages, systems, and tools. 

 DROID SOCKET 

Type: Starfighter/droid interface socket 
Cost: 10,000 (usually included in the cost of the starship) 
Availability: 3, R 
Game Notes: Droid sockets allow astromechs to combine copilot, sys­
tems monitoring, astrogation, and damage control operations for 
minimally crewed craft. The sockets are mostly found on starfight­
ers, but can be found on shuttles, and a select few airspeeders. 
Usually they come pre-installed, but occasionally techs have man­
aged to salvage or remove sockets from one craft and install them 
on another ship that does not normally make use of them. 
Installing a droid socket on a ship that was not designed with one 
requires a Very Difficult starfighter repair, space transport repair, or 
other related repair roll. 

Standard droid sockets generally allow droids to perform the 

following actions: 

• Pilot or copilot the ship with the pilot’s permission, or pilot the 
ship without it if the pilot is rendered unconscious. 
• Raise, lower, recharge, or angle deflector shields. 
• Reroute power to different systems. 
• Make related repair rolls as determined by the gamemaster. 
• Operate communications and sensor systems. 
• Input hyperspace coordinates and engage the hyperdrive. 
• Operate droid and pilot ejection systems, with the pilot’s per­
mission. 

The following actions are generally prohibited, but can be overridden 

by the pilot: 

• Weapons activation and firing. 
• Jumping to hyperspace without approval.

CHAPTER TWENTY

20 VEHICLES

Before I give you the lowdown on starfighters and space  
transports, I’m gonna show you the basics: subatmospheric  
craft. (You gotta crawl before you walk, right?)

There   are   vehicles   everywhere,   from   the   glittering   air­
speeders   of   the   Core   Worlds   to   the   greel   wood-covered  
groundcoaches   of   the  Tion   Hegemony.   If  there’s  a  job   that  
needs doing, there’s

probably a crate that’s designed for the job. Hey, even a  
fighter jock like me still likes to tinker with an old airspeeder  
now and again.

Chances   are   you’ll   be   flying   a   cloud   car   or   zippin’  
around in a landspeeder long before the Rebel Alliance  
gives you clearance in an X-wing, so we’ll start there.

VEHICLE STATISTICS

Each vehicle in this section has a variety of statistics that are useful  
in gameplay. Most of these vehicle codes are not necessary all of the 
time, but they provide valuable background data on the vehicle. 
Most of the time, it is sufficient to know the vehicle’s scale, skill, 
move,   maneuverability,   body   strength   and   relevant   weapon 

codes. The stats are presented in the following order:

 (VEHICLE’S MODEL OR NICKNAME)

Craft: The vehicle’s manufacturer, model name and num­
ber; also indicates whether vehicle is “stock” or “mod­
ified.”

Type: The vehicle’s general classification.
Scale:  The vehicle’s scale (used for the “scale” rules in 

the “Combat and Injuries” chapter).

Skill: The skill that is used to pilot the vehicle, followed 
by specialization. Example: Repulsorlift operation: air­
speeder.

Unskilled:  Some   very  specialized  vehicles  will   have   an 
“unskilled   penalty”   indicated:   anyone   piloting   the 
vehicle without the correct specialization suffers the 
penalty   indicated.   Example:  Repulsorlift   operations:  
heavy equipment (unskilled: −2D)

Crew: The standard crew complement of the vehicle, fol­
lowed by the gunners (in addition to the crew). The 
“skeleton” lists  the  minimum  number  needed to fly 
the vehicle, as well as the penalty added to all pilot­
ing difficulty numbers because of the skeleton crew.

Crew Skill: Typical die codes for crew members.
Passengers:  The  number of passengers the vehicle  can 

carry.

Cargo Capacity: The maximum mass of cargo that can be carried.
Cover:  The amount of cover provided by the vehicle for passengers. 
This is listed as Full, 3/4, 1/2, 1/4 or none — relevant modifiers are  
discussed in the “Combat And Injuries” chapter.

Altitude Range: For repulsorlift and flying vehicles only. The minimum 
and maximum operating altitude for the vehicle (Standard gravity 
and Standard atmosphere density worlds).

Cost: The cost for a new vehicle of this type. Used vehicle prices will 

vary, depending upon the vehicle’s condition and equipment.

Maneuverability:  This die code is added to the pilot’s roll whenever 
he makes an operation total, including for movement and  vehicle 
dodges.

Move:  The distance, in meters, covered by each move; the vehicle’s 

maximum speed in kilometers per standard hour.

Body Strength:  The vehicle rolls this die code to resist damage in 

combat.

Shields:  Some vehicles have shields. See the rules for shields in the 

“Space Travel & Combat” chapter.

Weapons:
Weapon Type:  This list the number and type of weapon the vehicle 
has mounted. If a vehicle is listed as “fire-linked” it means that the 
stats given below are for all of the weapons linked to fire simulta­
neously.
Fire Arc: Front, back, left, or right. Turret-mounted weapons can fire 

in all arcs.

Crew: The number of crew necessary to operate the weapon. If there 

is no crew listing, the weapon can be fired by the pilot.
Scale: The weapon’s scale (if different than that of the vehicle).
Skill: The skill used when operating the weapon.
Fire Control: This die code is added to the gunner’s skill total when 

firing the weapon.

Range:  The weapon’s short, medium and long ranges. If a weapon 
has four listings, it is for point-blank, short, medium and long 
ranges;   for   these   weapons,   anything   shorter   than   pointblank 
range requires a Very Difficult weapon total to hit in combat.

Damage: The weapon’s damage.

WALKERS

Most walkers are used as armored assault vehicles. Their sheer 
size and strength enable them to carry more armor and weapons 
than a similarly sized repulsorlift vehicle, and they can step over 
smaller obstacles.

AT-AT (All Terrain Armored Transport)

Created as a ground-assault vehicle and troop transport, the 
Imperial AT-AT, or walker, is a formidable weapon of war. Over 
15 meters tall, a walker moves quickly on its four massive legs. A 
pilot, gunner, and combat coordinator (commander) operate the 
vehicle. AT-ATs are heavily armed quadrupedal armored vehicles 
with articulated control cabins at the anterior. To beings from 
worlds with quadrupedal native life, AT-ATs often appear to be 
giant beasts of war; their control cabins like lolling heads; their 
chin-mounted lasers suggest fanged monsters of legend. These 
associations are intentional, an attempt by the AT-AT’s designers 
to inspire fear. 

Many companies contribute components to construction of 
AT-ATs, but the entire vehicle is assembled at the Kuat Drive 
Yards   under   strict   Imperial   supervision.   Kuat   designers   and 
developers worked from the original Imperial design concepts to 
create the all-terrain weapon that the Empire uses today. 

Walkers can operate in many different terrain types. Varying 
gravitational fields, climates, and land types do little to hamper 
its   performance.   It   makes   an   effective   urban   assault   vehicle 
since its height gives its crew a good line of sight over small 
buildings and low-lying structures. Anything it can’t see over, a 

walker can knock down or crash through without much trouble. 
Its thick armor can absorb heavy blaster fire with little or no 
damage, and is virtually impervious to harm from close-quarter 
fighting. Rugged hills and mountainous terrain, including cliffs 
and sheer slopes of up to eight meters in height, are easily navi­
gated by the giant AT-ATs. Uneven ground such as that found in 
marshes   and   jungles   slow   them   somewhat,   but   they   are   still 
more effective than many other ground transports over similar 
terrain.

The “head” houses the command crew in a compact, crowded 
cockpit. The walker’s weapon emplacements are also located in 
this   section,   presenting   the   crew   with   a   wide   field   of   vision 
through a viewport of armored transparisteel. The head can ele­
vate   and  depress   up   to  30  degrees   and  turn   as   much   as   90 
degrees.   Two   forward   firing   heavy   laser   cannons   —   mounted 
under the chin — and two medium blasters — one to each side 
of   the  head  —   constitute   the   walker’s   personal   arsenal.  Elec­
tro-rangefinders, targeting computers, sensor arrays, and holo­
graphic projectors give the crew a 360 degree computer-painted 
line of sight whenever necessary. The head is connected to the 
passenger   compartment   by   a   semi-flexible   and   less-armored 
“neck/tunnel.” Attacks on a walker usually concentrate on this 
weak point, making it necessary to regularly overhaul or replace 
these sections.

A walker’s body section can carry 40 fully-armed and bat­
tle-ready stormtroopers. To load and disembark troops, the AT-
AT kneels by bending its tri-jointed legs and lowering its body to 
within three meters of the ground. A landing ramp drops from 
the rear of the vehicle to deploy passengers. In addition, hatches 
on the flanks are used when docked at Imperial boarding plat­
forms.

AT-ATs are dropped into a combat zone from huge, specially-
designed shuttle barges or drop ships which transport walkers 
from Star Destroyers or nearby garrisons for deployment in a 
battle area.

Walkers were designed for blatant “shock” attacks: they are 
visible from great distances as they methodically plod toward 
the enemy, and the ground actually trembles as these monsters 
approach.   Anything   in   their   way   is   casually   crushed   beneath 
massive metal hooves.

Their approach, however, is deceptively fast; they only appear 
to be plodding forward. Actually, a great distance is covered by 
each stride, and Rebels who have faced them report that they 
are on you before you know it.

Walkers  are  front-line assault  vehicles  without equal.  Only 
carefully prepared defenses, a direct attack to knock out the gun 
emplacements, or concentrated fire on the neck have even the 
slightest chance of success.

 AT-AT

Craft: All Terrain Armored Transport
Type: Assault walker
Scale: Walker
Length: 20.6 meters long, 15.5 meters tall
Skill: Walker operation: AT-AT
Crew: 5, skeleton: 3/+10
Crew Skill: vehicle blasters 5D, walker operation 5D
Passengers: 40 (troops) or 2 AT-STs
Cargo Capacity: 1 metric ton
Cover: Full
Cost: Not available for sale
Move: 21; 60 kmh
Body Strength: 6D
Weapons:
2 Heavy Laser Cannons (fire-linked)

Fire Arc: Front
Crew: 1 (co-pilot or commander)
Skill: Vehicle blasters
Fire Control: 2D
Range: 50-500/1.5/3 Km
Damage: 6D

2 Medium Blasters (fire-linked)

Fire Arc: Front
Crew: 1 (co-pilot or commander)
Skill: Vehicle blasters
Fire Control: 2D
Range: 50-200/500/1 Km
Damage: 3D

Note: The AT-AT walker’s head is mounted on a pivoting neck, which 
can turn to face left, front and right fire arcs. An AT-AT may move 
its head one fire arc per turn (from left to front, right to front, 
front to right, or front to left).

AT-PT (All Terrain Personal Transport)

The forerunner of the AT-ST, the All Terrain Personal Trans­
port (AT-PT) was a light anti-infantry walker used by the Galac­
tic Republic and, later, the Galactic Empire. It 
was   manufactured   by   Rothana   Heavy 
Engineering,   a   subsidiary   of   Kuat 
Drive Yards.

AT-PTs were made to take 

single troopers into intense 
combat situations on their 
own, with the fire­
power of a squad. 
They stood only 
three meters tall, 
and were driven by 
AT-PT pilots.

The walkers were 
capable of speeds of 
up to 60 kilometers per 
hour and climb a 45-
degree angle, with 
hydraulic adjusters 
keeping the unit ba-

lanced.   The   vehicles   carried   a   long-range   comm   antenna   for 
patrols. The main drive unit provided power and hydraulic pres­
sure for the two legs, and featured cooling vents. The cockpit  
entry hatch was on the side, while the emergency flare launcher 
was just above the viewport.

The AT-PT was — compared to its intended threat, enemy sol­
diers — heavily armored, enough so that most small-arms fire 
could  not  penetrate  the  craft’s  armor.  The  walker  was   armed 
with twin blaster cannons and one concussion grenade launcher, 
which were only effective against infantry. The walker’s superior 
agility made up for its light armor (in comparison to most other 
cavalry units).

The units often traveled in packs for increased firepower.

 AT-PT

Craft: All-Terrain Personal Transport
Type: Light walker
Scale: Walker
Length: 2.1 meters long, 3.1 meters tall
Skill: Walker operation: AT-PT
Crew: 1
Crew Skill: Missile weapons 4D, vehicle blasters 4D, walker operation  

4D

Cargo Capacity: 25 kilograms
Cover: Full
Cost: 15,000 (used)
Maneuverability: 2D
Move: 21; 60 kmh
Body Strength: 2D
Weapons:
Twin Blaster Cannon

Fire Arc: Front
Skill: Vehicle blasters
Fire Control: 1D
Range: 10-50/200/500
Damage: 4D

Concussion Grenade Launcher

Fire Arc: Front
Skill: Missile weapons: grenade launcher
Fire Control: 1D
Range: 10-50/100/200
Damage: 2D

AT-ST (All Terrain Scout Transport)

Imperial AT-STs, or scout walkers. were designed for recon­
naissance and support for front line forces. Slightly more than 
six meters tall, these two-legged scouts can travel fast across 
open terrain. They are faster and more maneuverable than AT-
ATs, but less heavily armed and armored.

In combat, they are used primarily to provide covering fire 
when escorting Imperial stormtroopers on foot. When accompa­
nying AT-ATs, they cover the flanks and mop up foot soldiers 
who  evade  the  larger  walker’s   weapons   or  attempt   to attack 
from underneath. They are often dropped from shuttle barges or 
drop ships, or sent directly from Imperial garrisons. Because of 
their speed and maneuverability on open ground, scouts can be 
deadly in combat against infantry. Twin swivel-mounted blaster 
cannons   protrude   from   an   AT-AT’s   chin   section.   Twin   light 
blaster cannons are swivel-mounted on its port-side sensor pod, 
and a concussion grenade launcher juts from the starboard pod. 
In addition, each metal foot is equipped with steel claws that 
can cut through trip wires or slice the ground troops that close 
to engage. Only heavy blaster cannon or laser cannon fire can 
pierce a scout’s thick hide, but even then many direct hits are 
required to cause substantial damage.

Range: 50-200/1/2 Km
Damage: 4D

Twin Light Blaster Cannon

Fire Arc: Front
Crew: 1 (co-pilot)
Skill: Vehicle blasters
Fire Control: 1D
Range: 50-300/500/1 Km
Damage: 2D

Concussion Grenade Launcher

Fire Arc: Front
Crew: 1 (co-pilot)
Skill: Missile weapons: grenade launcher
Fire Control: 1D
Range: 10-50/100/200
Damage: 3D

AT-TE (All Terrain Tactical Enforcer)

Adapted  from  industrial   security vehicles   built by  Rothana 
Heavy Engineering. the All-Terrain Tactical Enforcer, or AT-TE, is 
a formidable weapons platform capable of delivering an entire 
platoon of clone troopers to strategic points on the battlefield, 
then prov ding them with covering fire while they take up posi­
tions. A dorsal projectile cannon enables the AT-TE to serve as 
mobile artillery, and an array of missile payloads allow it to be 
custom-armed to fit whatever purpose is necessary on the bat­
tlefield.

The AT-TE’s six massive walker legs and low profile provide 
great stability, but this design also makes the vehicle vulnerable 
to land mines and infantry equipped with explosives, as none of 
the AT-TE’s seven weapons covers the vehicle’s underside.

An unusual  feature of the AT-TE  is its magnetic grapplers, 
which  enable it to scale even sheer cliffs. The rear passenger 
compartment is also equipped with a medical droid for stabiliz­
ing wounded troopers until they can be safely transported to 
the nearest Republic Mobile Surgical Unit.

 AT-TE

Craft: Rothana Heavy Engineering All-Terrain Tactical Enforcer
Type: Walker
Scale: Walker
Length: 12.4 meters long
Skill: Walker operation: AT-TE
Crew: 1, gunners 6
Crew Skill: All skills typically at 8D
Passengers: 20 (troops) or cargo
Cargo Capacity: 60 tons
Cover: Full
Cost: Not available for sale
Maneuverability: 0D+2
Move: 21; 60 kmh
Body Strength: 4D+1

However, the lighter scout walkers are susceptible to fixed 
defenses such as trip wires, deadfalls, pits, and explosive charges. 
Balance is a  serious problem for these bipedal  vehicles. After 
several unsuccessful actions in which unsupported AT-STs were 
easily foiled, imperial tacticians dictated that scout actions were 
to be preceded by infantry to detect, clear, or mark such traps; 
in addition, the crew now uses sensors to locate defensive traps 
in an area, and advanced targeting scopes give them firepower 
superiority against most ground targets. The fact remains that in 
open, relatively level terrain, scout walkers can be very potent 
light-assault vehicles. 

 AT-ST

Craft: All Terrain Scout Transport
Type: Medium walker
Scale: Walker
Length: 6.4 meters long, 8.6 meters tall
Skill: Walker operation: AT-ST
Crew: 2, skeleton: 1/+15
Crew Skill: Missile weapons 4D, vehicle blasters 4D+2, walker        

operation 5D

Cargo Capacity: 200 kilograms
Cover: Full
Cost: Not available for sale
Maneuverability: 1D
Move: 30; 90 kmh
Body Strength: 3D
Weapons:
Twin Blaster Cannon

Fire Arc: Front
Crew: 1 (pilot)
Skill: Vehicle blasters
Fire Control: 1D

Weapons:
Heavy Projectile Cannon

Fire Arc: Front
Skill: Vehicle blasters
Fire Control: 2D
Range: 50-300/1/3 Km
Damage: 5D

6 Light Blaster Cannons (fire separately)

Fire Arc: 4 front, 2 rear
Scale: Speeder
Crew: 1
Skill: Vehicle blasters
Fire Control: 3D
Range: 10-250/500/1 Km
Damage: 4D

REPULSORLIFT TECHNOLOGY
The   predominant   vehicle   technology   is   called  repulsorlift. 
Repulsorlift   is   preferred   over   more   primitive   thrust   methods 
because   it   is   quieter,   cleaner   and   more   efficient   than   other 
propulsion   systems.   By   producing   antigravity  repulsor   fields, 
these drives allow exacting control and high speeds or incredible 
cargo hauling capacity. The versatile repulsor power plant can be 
adjusted to run on a variety of easily found power sources, such 
as minerals, solar power and fusion, although power cells and 
energy generators are preferred because they produce the most 
power for the least mass.

Repulsorlift vehicles are also popular because they are not 
restricted   to  roads  and  other  smooth   pathways   —   a  boon   to 
frontier and poor planets that can’t afford funding for highway 
construction. Almost all atmospheric vehicles, and a majority of 
“ground” vehicles in the Known Galaxy, rely upon repulsor tech­
nology;   primitive   wheeled,   hover   and   hydrocarbon   burning 
engines are normally found only on the most primitive worlds, 
or  on   planets   where   repulsorlift  isn’t  feasible  due  to  random 
gravity and radiation fluctuations.

Many high speed repulsorcraft, such as airspeeders and cloud 
cars,   use   ion   engine   afterburners   to   boost   performance   and 
speed, making them superior to many spacecraft in atmospheric 
performance.

LANDSPEEDERS

Landspeeders are ground-based repulsorlift vehicles, common 
on planets around the galaxy. Most families and individuals own 
their own  landspeeder, especially on  non-urban worlds  where 
there is very little public transportation.

Landspeeders are normally dependent only upon repulsorlift, 
although some competition and military models use ion engines 
for greater top-end speed. An average speeder flies around 200 
kilometers   per   hour,   although   the   fastest   models   can   reach 
speeds in excess of 350 kilometers per hour. Speeders normally 
have a flight ceiling of less than five meters, so they are depen­
dent   upon   smooth,   well-groomed   surfaces   for   smooth   flight, 
such as natural flats, calm water or roads.

Landspeeders   are   built   for   many   uses,   including   personal 
sport   speeders,   which   are   normally   two-seater   affairs,   family 
speeders, with room for up to six passengers, and massive cargo 
or public transport speeders, which can carry hundreds of indi­
viduals and move several tons of cargo. They retain a significant 
sales edge over airspeeders due to their affordability.

Ubrikkian 9000 Z004

The   Ubrikkian   Industries   9000   Z004   landspeeder   is   an   all-
species adaptation of its Z001 model, which was designed for 
Ugors. It has the same spherical design and small frame of the 
Z001 but features greater interior comfort and more powerful 
engines,  appealing  to  a   much   larger  audience.  Among  young 
joyriders and fans of speed, the model has become known sim­
ply as the “Zeefour,” and it sometimes appears in racing compe­
titions that normally host only swoops and speeder bikes. The 
Zeefour focuses on speed and stability over altitude or carrying 
capacity. It has a maximum ceiling of 1.5 meters off the ground 
and can manage speeds of up to 300 kilometers per hour with 
little chance of tipping. Not only is its design compact and sta­
ble, but its computer-enhanced navigational and steering sys­
tems also aid the pilot in making difficult maneuvers.

Although the Zeefour is a major departure from traditional 
speeder design, it has proven successful enough to be imitated, 
and some scratch-modified Z001 speeders have been created to 
match its capabilities. All 
official   models   of   the 
Zeefour-type   speeder   are 
civilian, but the enclosed 
capsule   and   high-pow­
ered   engine   lend   them­
selves   to   paramilitary 
modifications, which typ­
ically   include   a   layer   of 
armor   plating   and   a 
heavy blaster rifle. 

 UBRIKKIAN 9000 
Z004

Craft: Ubrikkian 9000 Z004
Type: Sport speeder
Scale: Speeder
Length: 2.46 meters
Skill: Repulsorlift operation: landspeeder
Crew: 1
Crew Skill: Varies widely
Passengers: 1
Cargo Capacity: 30 kilograms
Cover: Full
Altitude Range: Ground level-1.5 meters
Cost: 8,000 (new), 2,500 (used)
Maneuverability: 2D+1
Move: 105; 300 kmh
Body Strength: 1D+2

V-36 Courier

The   V-35   courier   is   an   extremely  common,   cheap,   durable 
landspeeder designed for families and small businesses. Built by 
SoroSuub decades before the Clone Wars, the V-35 is a top seller 
until midway through the Galactic Civil War, when newer mod­
els finally end its long and successful run. Even then, the V-35 
turns   up   regularly   on   fringe   worlds   (Luke   Skywalker’s   Uncle 
Owen kept a V-35 for family business on his Tatooine moisture 
farm).

In addition to being durable and having a good cargo capaci­
ty for a private speeder, the courier is popular because it offers 
total cover to those inside. Although it lacks the armor for this 
feature to be of much military value, it does allow those who 
would rather not be seen coming and going an excuse to travel

incognito.   Though   no   one   normally   bothers,   it   is   possible   to 
mount a small weapon turret on the vehicle’s roof, tied to its 
scanner scope. 

 V-35 COURIER

Craft: SoroSuub V-35 Courier
Type: Landspeeder
Scale: Speeder
Length: 3.8 meters
Skill: Repulsorlift operation: landspeeder
Crew: 1
Passengers: 2
Cargo Capacity: 120 kilograms
Cover: 1/4 (top pilot), 3/4 (passengers)
Altitude Range: Ground level-1.5 meters
Cost: 8,500 (new), 1,500 (used)
Maneuverability: 1D+2
Move: 40; 120 kmh
Body Strength: 2D

X-34 Landspeeder

One of the most popular models of civilian speeders is the 
SoroSuub X-series, which can attain a maximum altitude of 1.5 
meters. It is a durable two-person craft that features holograph­
ic displays, computer-assisted navigation, and counterbalances 
for a stable ride over rough terrain. (Luke Skywalker used an X-
34 landspeeder on Tatooine in Episode IV.)

 X-34 LANDSPEEDER

Craft: SoroSuub X-34 Landspeeder Ground Vehicle
Type: Landspeeder
Scale: Speeder
Length: 3.4 meters
Skill: Repulsorlift operation: landspeeder
Crew: 1
Passengers: 1
Cargo Capacity: 10 kilograms
Cover: 1/2
Altitude Range: Ground level-2 meters
Cost: 10,550 (new), 2,500 (used)
Maneuverability: 2D
Move: 115; 330 kmh
Body Strength: 2D

SPEEDER BIKES

These   vehicles   fill   the   need   for   small,   fast  personal   trans­
portation, and appeal both to youngsters around the galaxy and 
the   military.   They   are   normally   single   or   two   person   craft, 
emphasizing speed and maneuverability over safety and protec­
tion.

Aratech 74-Z Speeder Bike

The 74-Z is a basic speeder bike designed for military scout­
ing and urban patrol missions. It consists of a powerful repulsor­
lift engine with two small thrust engines, a long forward control 
vane, and a small blaster cannon in a rotating forward mount. It 
is designed for a single pilot but has room for a passenger as 
well-both straddling the engine block of the vehicle.

 ARATECH 74-Z MILITARY SPEEDER BIKE

Craft: Aratech 74-Z Military Speeder Bike
Type: Speeder bike
Scale: Speeder
Length: 3 meters
Skill: Repulsorlift operation: speeder bike
Crew: 1
Cargo Capacity: 3 kilograms
Cover: 1/4
Altitude Range: Ground level-25 meters
Cost: 6,750 (new), 1,200 (used)
Maneuverability: 3D+2
Move: 175; 500 kmh
Body Strength: 2D
Weapons:
Laser Cannon

Fire Arc: Front
Skill: Vehicle blasters
Fire Control: 2D
Range: 3-50/100/200
Damage: 3D

Nightfalcon Speeder Bike

Appealing to civilians, racers, and the military, one of Ikas-
Adno’s most popular vehicles is the 22-B Nightfalcon speeder 
bike. Marketed as a fast and sturdy bike, the Nightfalcon can be 
seen throughout the galaxy in a wide variety of roles, including  
personal transport, racing bike, and scouting speeder. Although 
not faster or stronger than Aratech’s 74-Y or 74-Z speeder bikes, 
the   22-B   Nightfalcon   offers   a   combination   of   speed   and 
strength that attracts  the attention of  both  civilians and the 
military.

 IKAS-ADNO NIGHTFALCON
Craft: Ikas-Adno 22-B Nightfalcon
Type: Speeder bike
Scale: Speeder
Length: 4.87 meters
Skill: Repulsorlift operation: speeder bike

Crew: 1
Passengers: 1
Cargo Capacity: 4 kilograms
Cover: 1/4
Altitude Range: Ground level-10 meters
Cost: 6,250 (new), 1,000 (used)
Maneuverability: 3D+1
Move: 160; 400 kmh
Body Strength: 1D+2
Weapons:
Laser Cannon

Fire Arc: Front
Skill: Vehicle blasters
Fire Control: 2D
Range: 30-50/100/200
Damage: 4D

Razalon FC-20

One device the Sith apprentice Darth Maul relied on was a 
Razalon Speeder Bike, a small, lightweight vehicle noted for its 
quiet operation. Its distinctive U-shape design made the vehicle 
a comfortable ride and easy to operate.

 RAZALON FC-20

Craft: Razalon FC-20 Speeder Bike
Type: Speeder bike
Scale: Speeder
Length: 1.5 meters
Skill: Repulsorlift operation: speeder bike
Crew: 1
Cargo Capacity: 2 kilograms
Cover: 1/4
Altitude Range: Ground level-0.8 meters
Cost: 4,000 (new), 1,000 (used)
Maneuverability: 2D+2
Move: 60; 180 kmh
Body Strength: 2D
Note:  Passive sound dampers dramatically reduce noise, adding +2D 

to the difficulty to detect the speeder bike by sound.

Single Trooper Aerial Platform (STAP)
Designed   specifically   for   00M-Series 

and B1-Series battle droids by Baktoid 
Armor   Workshop,   the   Single   Trooper 
Aerial Platform (or STAP) s a swift, 
agile weapons platform held aloft 
on   repulsorlifts.   The   STAP   is 
really little more than a vari­
ant of the speeder bike, built 
to accommodate a battle droid 
  The   Trade   Federation 
rider.
employs   entire   squadrons   of 
STAPs for scouting, patrols, and 
light   anti-personnel   support, 
though several of them work­
ing in concert can wreak hav­
oc   on   entrenched   opponents 
or deliver battle droid troops behind 
enemy lines, where they can dismount 
and attack enemies from the rear. 

 STAP

Craft: Baktoid Armor Workshop STAP-1
Type: Single trooper aerial platform
Scale: Speeder
Length: 1.9 meters
Skill: Repulsorlift operation: STAP
Crew: 1
Crew Skill: Repulsorlift operation 4D; vehicle blasters 4D
Passengers: None
Cargo Capacity: None
Cover: 1/4
Altitude Range: Ground level-20 meters
Cost: Not available for sale
Maneuverability: 3D
Move: 140; 400 kmh
Body Strength: 1D
Weapons:
2 Blaster Cannons (fire-linked)

Fire Arc: Front
Skill: Vehicle blasters
Fire Control: 1D
Range: 50-400/900/3 Km
Damage: 4D

SWOOPS

Swoops are a very advanced development in repulsorlift vehi­
cles — they achieve incredibly high speeds through a combina­
tion   of   repulsorlift   and   ion   engine   power,   while   completely 
sacrificing any protection.

They are much more difficult to pilot than speeder bikes, but 
in the hands of an expert, are much more effective, especially in 
high speed chase situations. Swoop racing is popular in the Core 
systems,   where   they   are   viewed   as   more   refined   than   the 
extremely dangerous Podraces.

Air-2 Racing Swoop

A design of swoop first introduced by TaggeCo during the 
Clone Wars, the Air-2 racing swoop saw huge sales in its first 
few decades of production because Podracing had recently been 
outlawed, replaced on many worlds by swoop racing. Balanced 
to have just enough power and mass for sport flying, the Air-2 
has an impressive top speed of 700 kilometers per hour and a

1-kilometer flight ceiling. The 
swoop quickly became 
popular with racers, 
joyriders, and gang 
members, but it suf­
fered from an image 
problem due to its 
relatively short frame 
and stubby appearance. 
When longer, sleeker swoops 
were introduced as competition, sales of the 
Air-2 declined. 
The Air-2 requires  skilled piloting. It has  controls  for both 
hands and both feet, and the pilot must shift his weight to per­
form many maneuvers. This coordination can be difficult for an 
unskilled pilot. However, the lack of complex computer controls 
or droid ports simplifies repairs, making the swoop popular on 
harsh planets where more delicate speeders suffer regular break­
downs.

The basic design of the Air-2 racing swoop has been copied 
and   modified   by   dozen   of   companies;   SoroSuub   even   has   a 
model also called the Air-2. As a result, it’s not unusual to find 
similar swoops with minor differences, such as a second seat for 
passengers, slightly decreased speed coupled with  extra  cargo 
capacity,   or   heavier   armor   and   a   lower   flight   ceiling.   Unlike 
many other swoop and speeder designs, the Air-2 is almost nev­
er armed. Its small size, tricky handling, and lack of spare power 
make it impossible to mount weapons heavier than pilots can 
carry on their persons. 

 AIR-2 RACING SWOOP

Craft: TaggeCo Air-2 Racing Swoop
Type: Swoop
Scale: Speeder
Length: 2.35 meters
Skill: Swoop operation
Crew: 1
Crew Skill: Varies
Passengers: None
Cargo Capacity: 1.75 kilograms
Cover: 1/4
Altitude Range: Ground level-1 km
Cost: 7,000 (new), 2,500 (used)
Maneuverability: 2D+1
Move: 242; 700 kmh
Body Strength: 1D+1

Flare-S Swoop

The Mobquet Flare-S is considered by many to be the perfect 
swoop bike. After the New Order outlawed Podracing, those who 
wanted   to   engage   in   high-speed,   high-risk   sports   turned   to 
swoop racing, and the Flare-S quickly became the most common 
swoop bike on the race circuit. The Flare-S is extremely power­
ful, has a maximum altitude of 350 meters (it can be modified 
with a Moderate to Difficult  repulsorlift repair  check to reach 
an altitude of several kilometers), and is much faster than stan­
dard speeder bikes. It is also extremely dangerous to fly, with 
few   safety   systems.   Professional   swoop   racers   sometimes   add 
deflectors to their bikes, but doing so is an expensive modifica­
tion, running 20,000 credits, and rarely saves lives.

The   Flare-S   is   also   popular   with   gangs,   mercenaries   and 
bounty hunters. A “swoop culture” of high-risk, stunt-oriented 
behavior exists on many worlds, and the dividing line between

amateur  swoop   racers   and   criminally   minded   swoop   gangs  is 
often fuzzy. The Flare-S has sufficient power to mount heavy 
weapons  (though  not  in  addition to deflectors)  and is  sturdy 
enough that many survive longer than their riders. 

 FLARE-S

Craft: Mobquet Flare-S Swoop
Type: Swoop
Scale: Speeder
Length: 2.5 meters
Skill: Swoop operation
Crew: 1
Cargo Capacity: 2 kilograms
Cover: 1/4
Altitude Range: Ground level-350 meters
Cost: 5,750 (new), 1,500 (used)
Maneuverability: 4D+2
Move: 225; 650 kmh
Body Strength: 1D+1

ARMORED ASSAULT VEHICLES

These   heavily   armored   vehicles   use   repulsorlifts   to   move 
about   the   battlefield.   Although   not   maneuverable,   they   pack 
incredible firepower and can safely transport teams of troops 
into hostile territory.

AAT-1

The Trade Federation uses AAT-1s propelled by heavy repul­
sorlifts on the front lines of a battlefield to soften up the enemy 
before deploying waves of battle droids.

 AAT-1

Craft: Baktoid Armor Workshop Armored Assault Tank-1
Type: Armored assault tank
Scale: Walker
Length: 9.75 meters
Skill: Repulsorlift operation: AAT-1
Crew: 1 pilot droid, 2 gunner droids, 1 commander droid
Crew Skill: 4D in all applicable skills
Passengers:  6 battle droids (using handholds on the exterior of the 

tank)

Cargo Capacity: 500 kilograms

deployment point. To facilitate rapid deployment, the engineers 
at Baktoid Armor Workshop developed a hydraulic storage rack 
that   could   not   only   stack   112   B1-Series   battle   droids   (com­
pressed into a convenient boxlike shape) in the MTT’s cargo bay, 
but also deploy them directly onto the battlefield in less than  
one minute. A variant of the MTT. the Multi-Utility Transport, 
lacks the Mr’s weaponry and has a top speed of only 25 km/h, 
but carries up to 20 tons of cargo. 

 MULTI-TROOP TRANSPORT

Craft: Baktoid Armor Workshop Multi Troop Transport
Type: Heavy armored troop transport
Scale: Walker
Length: 31 meters
Skill: Repulsorlift operation: MTT
Crew: 1 pilot droid, 1 gunner droid
Crew Skill: 4D in all applicable skills
Passengers:  100 Infantry Battle Droids, 10 Security Battle Droids, 2 

Commander Battle Droids
Cargo Capacity: 10 kilograms
Cover: Full (None for exterior passengers)
Altitude Range: Ground level-4 meters
Maneuverability: 0D
Move: 12; 35 kmh
Body Strength: 4D
Weapons:
2 Dual Blaster cannons (fire-linked)

Fire Arc: Front
Skill: Vehicle blasters
Fire Control: 2D
Range: 50-400/900/3 Km
Damage: 3D+2

Game Notes: If attacked from the rear, the MTT only has an effective 
Body  Strength of 1D due to  the thinness of the rear armor  (to 
allow for ventilation of the power plant). If the MTT suffers a dam­
age result of Heavy or higher from a rear attack, the power plant 
will explode within 2D turns. The explosion will destroy any droids 
and/or characters on board and completely gut the MTT.

AIRSPEEDERS

Airspeeders   are   personal   transport   vehicles   designed   for 
speed and maneuverability. While specific models have different 
capabilities, airspeeders as a general class range from low-level 
vehicles to high-altitude vehicles that can travel up to 25 kilo­
meters above ground level; most airspeeders have a flight ceiling 
of less than 250 meters, deriving maximum lift from the atmos­
phere   and   without   the   need   for   pressurized   pilot’s   compart­
ments.

Airspeeders are superb “hit-and-run” combat vehicles, with 
top-end speeds exceeding 900 kilometers per hour. Airspeeders 
are sleek and aerodynamic, and use mechanical control flaps for 
high-speed turns without loss of speed. Because of these capa­
bilities, they are fairly difficult to track with targeting comput­
ers, and while not as sturdy as cloud cars, they are far more  
difficult to hit, especially with slow-response artillery weapons.

Airspeeders are considered sport and speed vehicles, and so 
have a notoriously low cargo capacity, and are only capable of 
carrying one to two people. Civilian airspeeders are often care­
fully regulated, except on frontier worlds, simply because these 
vehicles are very dangerous in the hands of untrained novices 
(there are many horror stories of these vehicles getting away 
from a new pilot and plunging into a crowd of spectators or 
houses).   Local   governments,   law   enforcement   agencies,   and 
even the Rebel Alliance/New Republic forces use many modified 
varieties   of   airspeeders,   because   they   are   cheap   and   reliable 

Cover: Full (None for exterior passengers)
Altitude Range: Ground level-4 meters
Maneuverability: 1D
Move: 21; 60 kmh
Body Strength: 6D
Weapons:
Heavy Laser Cannon

Fire Arc: Front
Skill: Vehicle blasters
Fire Control: 2D
Range: 50-500/1/2 Km
Damage: 5D

8 Light Repeating Laser Cannons (fire separately)

Fire Arc: Front
Scale: Speeder
Skill: Vehicle blasters
Fire Control: 1D
Range: 3-50/120/300
Damage: 4D
6 Shell Launchers
Fire Arc: Front
Skill: Missile weapons
Fire Control: 0D
Range: 100/200/400
Damage: 3D (2-meter radius)

Game Notes: If attacked from the rear, the AAT only has an effective 
Body  Strength of 2D due to  the thinness of the rear armor  (to 
allow for ventilation of the power plant). If the AAT suffers a dam­
age result of Heavy or higher from a rear attack, the power plant 
will explode within 2D turns. 

Secondly,   the   AAT’s   electrical   systems   are   poorly  shielded.  If 
damage from ion weapons (or Gungan energy balls) exceeds the 
AAT’s Body roll by more than 9 points, the electrical system shorts 
out. As a result, the AAT shuts down and will not function again 
until the electrical system is completely replaced.

Multi-Troop Transport

Baktoid   Armor   Work­
shop   designs   and   manu­
factures   the   Multi-Troop 
Transport   (MTT)   for   the 
Trade   Federation’s   battle 
droid security forces long 
before   the   Clone   Wars. 
Although   equipped   with 
only   minimal   weaponry, 
the   MTT  
is   heavily 
armored,   allowing   it   to 
plow   through   troops   or 
light vehicles to reach its 

defense   craft,   and   can   easily   carry   a   number   of   powerful 
weapons. Although the conversion process for demanding envi­
ronments can be tricky, once the vehicles are flight-worthy, they 
require much less maintenance than cloud cars.

Incom T-47I Airspeeder

The T-47I is an old, but popular, model of airspeeder based on 
Incom’s popular basic T-47 model. It’s noted for both speed and 
maneuverability. While it has been out of production for nearly 
a decade at the time of the rebellion, it remains a favorite of 
adolescents  and young adults  because  it is  easy to maintain, 
spare parts are readily available and it can easily be modified for 
greater speed.

 INCOM T-47I AIRSPEEDER

Craft: Incom T-47I Airspeeder (civilian)
Type: Airspeeder
Scale: Speeder
Length: 4.5 meters
Skill: Repulsorlift operation: airspeeder
Crew: 1
Crew Skill: Varies widely
Cargo Capacity: 10 kilograms
Cover: Full
Altitude Range: Ground level-250 meters
Cost: 38,000 (new), 10,000 (used)
Maneuverability: 3D
Move: 225; 650 kmh
Body Strength: 2D

LAAT/i Gunship

The LAAT/i  was  a repulsorlift  infantry  transport capable of 
carrying   up   to   thirty   troopers.   Secondary   functions   included 
reconnaissance,   direct   fire   support,   search-and-recovery,   and 
low-altitude air-to-ground and air-to-air strikes against vehicles 
ranging from airspeeders to starfighters.

In addition to its trooper complement, housed on a deckplate 
protected by drooping wings and a sliding side door, the LAAT/i 
could   carry   four   military   speeder   bikes   in   an   aft-deploy-

able rack. The 
crew comple­
ment comprised a 
clone trooper pilot 
and co-pilot/for­
ward gunner in the 
hunchbacked cock­
pit, and two auxiliary 
gunners stationed in 
pinpoint composite-beam 
turrets extending on artic­
ulated arms from the troop 
cabin. An IM-6 medical droid 
was commonly carried aboard in 
an emergency locker. In the event of 
emergencies, the cockpit capsule could 
separate from the main craft to act as an 
escape pod.

The LAAT/i was a fully armed gun platform, with a complete 
arsenal of weaponry that consisted of three anti-personnel laser 
turrets, two forward-facing, one covering the stern hatch; two 
top-mounted mass-driver missile launchers fed by rear-mounted 
ordnance belts and commonly loaded with short-range homing 
missiles, HE (high explosive), HEAP (high explosive armor-pierc­
ing), and APF (anti-personnel fragmentation) rounds; four com­
posite-beam, pin-point laser turrets, (on some models, the slot 
for these Balls were inter-changeable with floodlights) two of 
which were automated bubble-turrets located on either wing; 
and eight light air-to-air rockets stowed on the underside of 
each wing.

Infantry gunships were equipped with atmospheric contain­
ment shielding and could be deployed from space, yet could not 
reach orbit altitude without a carrier vessel. The LAAT/i’s optimal 
fighting range was in the lower atmosphere, where they could 
reach speeds in excess of six hundred kilometers per hour. A sin­
gle Acclamator-class assault ship could carry up to eighty LAAT-
series gunships, while a Venator-class Star Destroyer had space 
for half that complement. The LAAT/i was highly effective but 
lacked large amounts of armor making it a vulnerable target.

 LAAT/I GUNSHIP

Craft: Rothana Heavy Engineering LAAT/i Attack Gunship
Type: Airspeeder
Scale: Speeder
Length: 17.4 meters
Skill: Repulsorlift operation: LAAT/i Attack Gunship
Crew: 6
Crew Skill: All skills typically at 6D
Passengers: 30 (troops)
Cargo Capacity: 2 tons
Cover: Full
Altitude Range: Up to near orbit
Cost: 65,000 (new), 40,000 (used)
Maneuverability: 2D+1
Move: 216; 620 kmh
Body Strength: 4D
Weapons:
2 Mass Driver Missile Launchers (fire-linked)

Fire Arc: Front
Skill: Vehicle blasters
Fire Control: 1D
Range: 50-250/1/3 Km
Damage: 6D

3 Anti-Personnel Laser Cannons (fire separately)

Fire Arc: Partial Turret (1 front/right/left, 1 front / right / rear, 1

          front / left / rear)
Skill: Vehicle blasters
Scale: Character
Fire Control: 0D
Range: 3-50/200/400 m
Damage: 8D

4 Composite Beam Pinpoint Laser Turrets (fire separately)

Fire Arc: Turret
Skill: Vehicle blasters
Fire Control: 2D
Range: 10-75/150/300 m
Damage: 4D

2 Rocket Launchers (4 missiles each)

Fire Arc: Front
Skill: Missile weapons
Fire Control: 1D
Range: 2 Km
Damage: 5D

Rebel Alliance Combat Airspeeder

The Rebel Alliance combat airspeeder has seen extensive use 
throughout   the   military   forces   of   the   Alliance   —   they   were 
cheap to manufacture, reliable and sturdy, and produced excel­
lent   speed   and   firepower.   The   Alliance   often   modified   their 
speeders for specific terrain — speeders for cold environments 
were   “snowspeeders,”   those   for   hot,   dry   planets   were   “sand­
speeders,”   and   those   for   jungle   and   other   moist   worlds   are 
called “swampspeeders.”

The   infamous   Battle   of   Hoth   pitted   Alliance   snowspeeders 
against Imperial AT-AT walkers, and amazingly enough, a crafty 
tactic   devised   by   Commander   Luke   Skywalker   allowed   the 
speeders to topple several of the fearsome Imperial battle vehi­
cles, despite not having blasters powerful enough to penetrate 
the walkers’ armor.

The two person cockpit has the pilot facing forward, while 
the co-pilot faces backward and is responsible for the operation 
of the power harpoon, in addition to normal co-piloting respon­
sibilities.

 REBEL ALLIANCE COMBAT SNOWSPEEDER

Craft:  Rebel Alliance Combat Snowspeeder (custom-designed frame 

and powerplant)

Type: Modified combat airspeeder
Scale: Speeder
Length: 5.5 meters
Skill: Repulsorlift operation: airspeeder
Crew: 1, gunners: 1 (can coordinate)
Crew Skill: Varies widely

Cargo Capacity: 10 kilograms
Cover: Full
Altitude Range: Ground level-250 meters
Cost: 50,000 (used only; black market only)
Maneuverability: 3D
Move: 350; 1,000 kmh
Body Strength: 3D
Weapons:
Double Laser Cannon (fire-linked)

Fire Arc: Front
Skill: Vehicle blasters
Fire Control: 2D
Range: 50-300/800/1.5 km
Damage: 4D+2
Power Harpoon
Fire Arc: Rear
Crew: 1 (co-pilot)
Skill: Missile weapons
Fire Control: 2D
Range: 25-50/100/200
Damage: 3D (none if tow cable and fusion disk are used)

CLOUD CARS

Cloud cars are medium and high-atmosphere vehicles which 
utilize a combination of repulsorlift and ion engine propulsion 
for   speed.   They   are  capable   of  achieving   speeds   in  excess   of 
1,500 kilometers per hour, with cruising heights ranging from a 
few kilometers up to near-space heights of over 100 kilometers.

On standard worlds, they are used as high-altitude patrol and 
defense   craft,   keeping   incoming   ships   and   super-atmospheric 
transports in appropriate landing corridors. There are few private 
owners of cloud cars because of their expense and limited utili­
ty.

The major manufacturer of cloud cars is Bespin Motors. Due 
to Cloud City’s unusual location, in the heart of a gas giant, 
cloud   cars   are   common   transportation   there,   since   standard 
repulsor vehicles don’t have the appropriate altitude range to be 
of use on the planet. Bespin Motors has designed a large num­
ber of pleasure craft, air taxis, and other personal vehicles for 
use on Bespin, although they are of very limited popularity on 
other worlds.

Storm IV Twin-Pod Cloud Car

The Storm IV twin-pod cloud car is typical of the capabilities 
of most cloud cars, though its double-cockpit arrangement is 
unusual. Bespin Motors first developed the model as a patrol 
vehicle for Cloud City security forces. When the Storm IV proved 
successful,   the   company   began   producing   models   for   export, 
and  others   have   since   designed   their 
own versions of cloud cars. 

 BESPIN MOTORS STORM IV

Craft: Bespin Motors Storm IV
Type: Twin-Pod Cloud Car
Scale: Speeder
Length: 7 meters
Skill: Repulsorlift operation: cloud car
Crew: 1, gunners: 1 (can combine)
Crew Skill: Varies widely
Cargo Capacity: 10 kilograms
Cover: Full
Altitude Range: 50-100 km

Cost: 8,000 (new), 6,000 (used)
Maneuverability: 1D
Move: 325; 945 kmh
Body Strength: 2D

SAIL BARGES

Sail barges are massive vehicles that are long on luxury and 
short on practicality. They feature massive sails, as a throwback 
to the legendary days of early planetary explorers, and are cov­
ered with gaudy ornamentation. They are normally used as plea­
sure craft, vacation vessels and touring vehicles, able to cross 
any smooth, rolling, or flat surface. They are slow (they seldom 
travel faster than 100 kilometers per hour, and most have to 
struggle to reach that speed), and have a low flight ceiling (nor­
mally less than 10 meters).

Ubrikkian Luxury Sail Barge

The Ubrikkian sail barge is a luxury vessel primarily used as a 
touring craft, for entertaining, or as vacation complexes. They 
regularly traverse sand, water, and ice seas, providing passengers 
with the comforts of an expensive hotel while moving across 
exotic terrain. One company known for its sail barge vacation 
packages is Galaxy Tours (a subsidiary of Star Tours). Sail barge 
cruises are expensive, usually undertaken only by wealthy busi­
nessmen, planetary royalty, or high-ranking officials. Of course, 
Jabba the Hutt owned a Ubrikkian Sail Barge, which he used has 
his personal pleasure craft.

 SAIL BARGE

Craft: Ubrikkian Luxury Sail Barge
Type: Sail barge
Scale: Walker
Length: 30 meters
Skill: Repulsorlift operation: sail barge
Crew: 26, gunners: 1, skeleton: 10/+10
Crew Skill: Varies widely
Passengers: 500
Cargo Capacity: 2,000 metric tons
Cover: Full
Altitude Range: Ground level-10 meters
Cost: 285,000 (new), 150,000 (used)
Move: 35; 100 kmh
Body Strength: 2D
Weapons:
Heavy Blaster Cannon

Fire Arc: Turret
Crew: 1
Scale: Speeder
Skill: Vehicle blasters
Fire Control: 1D
Range: 50-100/500/1 Km
Damage: 3D

Cost: 75,000 (new), 28,000 (used)
Maneuverability: 2D+2
Move: 520; 1,500 kmh
Body Strength: 4D
Weapons:
Double Blaster Cannon (fire-linked)

Fire Arc: Front
Crew: 1 (co-pilot)
Skill: Vehicle blasters
Fire Control: 1D
Range: 50-400/900/3 km
Damage: 5D

PODRACERS

A   Podracer,   or   “pod,”   is   essentially   a   one-pilot   cockpit 
attached to two racing engines via strong cables. The special 
engines for these craft traditionally come in one of two varieties 
of mechanical action: internal combustion engine types or rock­
et   motor   types.   At   a   distance,   one   can   differentiate   engines 
from motors by noting if there are rotating fan/turbines at the 
front   of   the   craft   (engines   had   large   rotating   fans,   motors 
lacked them). Energy binders projected from each engine con­
nected both turbines together, forming a loose triangular con­
figuration with the pod itself, dragged behind the engines, at
the highest point. A racer can commonly 
achieve speeds in excess of eight 
hundred kilometers per 
hour. 

 RADON-ULZER PODRACER

Craft: Radon-Ulzer 620C
Type: Pod racer
Scale: Speeder
Length: 7 meters
Skill: (A) Podracer operation
Crew: 1
Passengers: None
Cargo Capacity: 5 kilograms
Cover: 1/2
Altitude Range: Ground level-105 meters

SKIFFS

Skiffs are used for any large cargo and relatively low-speed 
and low-altitude transportation. They tend to be slow and clum­
sy, and can be easily operated, even by low intelligence labor  
droids.

Bantha-II Cargo Skiff

The  Bantha-II  is  a   typical  heavy  cargo  speeder,  little  more 
than a platform with a railing around it. Though slow by the  
standards of most speeders, its simple controls and heavy lifting 
capacity   make   it   effective   as   a   cargo   carrier   and   mid-range 
transport. The skiff’s open deck makes it easy to load, and its 
long, lean frame allows it to move into tight spaces and close to 
loading   docks.   However,   the   skiff’s   large   maneuvering   vanes, 
which are easy to damage, make the Bantha-II unpopular for 
use in crowded cities and on industrialized planets.

Although the skiffs lack the armor and durability to serve as 
true military vehicles, they can be used as troop carriers, moving 
infantry close to a battle without coming directly under fire. 
Some crime lords and gangs mount defensive plates and heavy 
weapons on skiffs for intimidation purposes (reducing the top 
speed to 200 kilometers per hour), but these modified skiffs are 
effective only in nonmilitary conflicts, such as providing cover 
for smuggler operations or threatening lightly armed civilians. 
More  creative crime  lords  sometimes   add theatrical  enhance­
ments, such as extending planks for executions and imposing 
mastheads of mythological creatures.

Modified   versions   of   the   Bantha-II   adapt   the   skiff   to   the 
environments of specific worlds. On planets with toxic fumes or 
dangerous plant life, the skiffs might have enclosed pilothouses 
and decks to grant life support to passengers. Aquatic skiffs can 
float on the surface of a lake or river even when unpowered and 
feature spray-screens to keep passengers dry in a downpour or 
in whitewater rapids. Skiffs used on desert worlds are equipped 
with screens and cooling vents to keep them operational during 
sandstorms. 

 CARGO SKIFF

Craft: Ubrikkian Bantha II Cargo SKiff
Type: Cargo skiff
Scale: Speeder
Length: 9 meters
Skill: Repulsorlift operation: cargo skiff
Crew: 1
Passengers: 16
Cargo Capacity: 120 metric tons
Cover: 1/2
Altitude Range: Ground level-50 meters
Cost: 8,000 (new), 3,000 (used)
Move: 70; 200 kmh
Body Strength: 1D

GROUND VEHICLES

The Republic found walkers to be more useful than repulsor 
vehicles in many engagements, and the Empire took to them as 
their primary heavy land units. As the New Order first started 
transitioning from the Grand Army of the Republic to the Impe­
rial   Army,  numerous  new   walker  designs  were  tried,  many  of 
which proved too expensive for long-term use. In order to fill 
the need for heavy assault ground vehicles, the Empire often 
used wheeled and tracked (relics of the Clone Wars) to supple­
ment their forces.

A5 Juggernaut

Smaller and older than the A6 Juggernaut that dominated 
the battlefields of closing days of the Clone Wars, the A5 Jug­
gernaut is a 10-wheeled, heavily armored assault vehicle that 
continues  to see  use in  many  Imperial  forces  despite its  age. 
Wherever an AT-AT or similar heavy walker isn’t available, an A5 
is used as a replacement. Though faster than an AT-AT, the A5 is 
less maneuverable (especially in rough terrain), slightly less resis­
tant   to   damage,   and   requires   a   larger   crew.   It   also   mounts 
slightly lighter weapons, and it lacks the power generation to 
upgrade   to  lasers   as   powerful   as   those   on   an   AT-AT.   Despite 
these shortcomings, an A5 is a dangerous and versatile combat 
vehicle. It can effectively spearhead a ground assault, act as a 
mobile command center, engage in hit-and-run raids, and even 
act as an antiaircraft battery when engaging airspeeders or low-
flying starfighters.

Though the Empire owns more A5s than anyone else, as the 
years   pass   and   the   Empire   retires   and   replaces   them,   other 
groups begin picking them up. Many Imperial A5s are left as 
smoking  wrecks   on   battlefields,   and  while   it’s   not   worth   the 
Empire’s time or money to recover and repair them, crime car­
tels, major corporations, and insurgent groups are willing to go 
to much greater lengths to acquire such a powerful ground unit. 

repulsorlift generators for stability, drive and maneuvering. In 
the flattened position, the whole body floats on the surface of  
the water and troops can either drop directly through the bot­
tom   hatch   to   evade   notice,   or   depart   or   unload   equipment 
through a back cargo door.

When the Waveskimmer begins to move forward, the surface 
tension of the water creates a virtual solid surface, eliminating 
the instability suffered by traditional boats. The repulsor units 
keep it a few centimeters above the surface of the water. As it 
gains speed, the support booms  lock into position, lifting the 
whole body out of the water until only the pontoons are near 
the surface. This allows a great rate of speed. The vehicle has 
proven remarkably effective in assault duty.

 WAVESKIMMER
Craft: Waveskimmer
Type: Attack hydrofoil
Scale: Walker
Length: 14 meters
Skill: Hover vehicle operation: Waveskimmer
Crew: 3, gunners: 2
Crew Skill: Vehicle blasters 5D, hover vehicle operation 4D
Passengers: 28 (troops)
Cargo Capacity: 1 metric ton
Cover: Full
Cost: Not available for sale (285,000 credits on the invisible market)
Maneuverability: 1D
Move: 55; 160 kmh
Body Strength: 3D
Weapons:
2 Medium Blaster Cannons

Fire Arc: 1 front/left*, 1 front/right*
 *The blaster cannon can only be turned to one facing per round.
Crew: 1 (co-pilot)
Skill: Vehicle blasters
Fire Control: 1D+1
Range: 50-350/1/1.5 Km
Damage: 4D

2 Light Blaster Cannons
Fire Arc: 1 front, 1 back
Crew: 1
Skill: Vehicle blasters
Fire Control: 1D
Range: 50-300/500/1 Km
Damage: 2D

2 Concussion Torpedo Launchers (fire-linked)

Fire Arc: Front
Crew: 1 (co-pilot)
Skill: Missile weapons
Fire Control: 1D
Range: 10-500/1/2 Km
Damage: 3D

 A5 JUGGERNAUT

Craft: Kuat Drive Yards’ HAVw A5 Juggernaut
Type: Heavy assault vehicle
Scale: Walker
Length: 21.8 meters
Skill: Ground vehicle operation: Juggernaut
Crew: 2; gunners: 6
Crew Skill: Ground vehicle operation 4D+2, missile weapons 4D, vehi­

cle blasters 4D+1
Passengers: 50 (troops)
Cargo Capacity: 1 metric ton
Cover: Full
Cost: Not available for sale
Maneuverability: 0D
Move: 70; 200 kmh, slows to 8; 25 kmh when turning
Body Strength: 5D
Weapons:
3 Heavy Laser Cannons

Fire Arc: 1 turret*, 1 left, 1 right
Crew: 2
Skill: Vehicle blasters
Fire Control: 2D
Range: 50-50/1/2 Km
Damage: 6D
* Note: The Juggernaut’s heavy laser cannon turret can turn to face 
the left, front and right fire arcs only. It may move the turret one 
fire arc per turn (from left to front, right to front, front to right 
or front to left).
Medium Blaster Cannon

Fire Arc: Turret
Crew: 1
Skill: Vehicle blasters
Fire Control: 1D
Range: 50-250/750/1.5 Km
Damage: 4D

1 Concussion Grenade Launchers

Fire Arc: Turret
Crew: 1
Skill: Missile weapons
Fire Control: 1D
Range: 50-100/250/500
Damage: 8D+1

HOVER VEHICLES

Hover vehicles generate a cushion of air below the craft for 
travel   over   various   types   of   terrain.   Hovercraft   are   generally 
unwieldy, but they are used on many primitive worlds and are 
sometimes used for specific military applications. They are also 
used on planets with unusual gravitational fluctuations or other 
quirks which interfere with repulsorlift operation.

Waveskimmer

The Waveskimmer is an effective dedicated aquatic combat 

hover vehicle. While not intended to replace the AT-
AT swimmer, the Waveskimmer, or “Wave Walker”, is 
most   useful   for   augmenting   an   existing   Imperial 
presence. The Waveskimmer is a surface craft allow­
ing great speed and mobility, The vehicle is based on 
an augmented AT-AT walker frame, although special­
ly modified for water combat. The biggest difference 
is the propulsion system — the Waveskimmer is not a 
walker at all. The vehicle rests on two pontoon-like 
stabilizers   on   the   ends   of   flattened   booms.   These 
booms are based on the same variable geometry ser­
vo-motors used in some snubfighters and the Lamb­
da-class shuttle. The booms are equipped with micro-

21

CHAPTER TWENTY-ONE

STARSHIPS

A   starship’s   a   lot   more   than   a   collection   of   nuts   and  
bolts   and   wires.   When   you’re   soaring   past   some   dead  
moon and all of a sudden a swarm of pirates is on your  
tail, suddenly it’s your mother, your brother and your best  
friend. In fact, it’s better than that... a good ship will go  
where you want it to, do what you ask of it, and best of  
all, never ask to borrow money.

Like any other piece of hardware, treat your ship right  
and it’ll treat you right. And don’t be surprised if it almost  
shows off a “personality” of its own one day. Pretty soon,  
you’ll know how much it can give, when to baby it, and  
when it needs a good, solid whack to coax that last  
extra burst of speed out of it.

The   ships   in   this   section   aren’t   all   that’s   out  
there, you can bet on that. But they’re a pretty  
good sample of the sort that fill the space­
ways and, if you’re lucky, maybe you’ll be  

flying one soon.

SPACECRAFT SYSTEMS

Almost   without   exception,   every   species   has 
yearned to leave the confines of its tiny planet and 
explore the vast reaches of space. On these plan­
ets,   achieving   this   dream   has   been   the   single 
most   important   advancement   in   the   civiliza­
tion’s   history,   often   spelling   the   difference 
between   survival   and   extinction,   between 

boundless growth and eternal stagnation. 

Though   many   species   had   achieved   sublight   flight   and   explored   the 
confines of their own planetary systems, the development of hyperdrive (or 
other faster-than-light technologies) made the first steps toward a galactic 

community possible.

Today, however, space travel is part of everyday life. What thousands of years 
ago seemed startlingly new and fascinating — almost magical — now seems rou­
tine. Few beings — except those from primitive worlds — think twice about hyper­
drives,   sensors,   faster-than-light   travel,   or   life   support   systems.   But   these 

“commonplace” items hold the galactic community together.

Without   hyperspace   technology,   travel   from   one   star   system   to   another 
would take years Instead of a few hours or days. In fact, in ancient days the 
first space travelers were put into cybernetic hibernation to make even short 
intrasystem flights so that they would not have to face the 
years — even decades — of boredom that space travel 
entailed. With the development of hyperdrive tech­
nology, though, the need for cybernetic hibernation 
became a thing of the past.

But it was not only hyperdrive which opened the galaxy: oth­
er  inventions  were needed to safely get   from place to place. 
Without the sensors aboard even the smallest starships, travel at 
sublight speeds would be dangerous to the point of suicidal, and 
of course, hyperspace travel would be impossible. In addition, 
the   development   of   a   galaxy-wide   industrial-based   economy 
would have been impossible without advanced sensing technol­
ogy: sensors allowed the exploration of the galaxy and expedi­
ent isolation of valuable raw materials.

Life support systems that allow space travelers to survive the 
vacuum of space are indispensable. When crossing the void, one 
is plying an environment that is totally hostile to all but the 
most primitive life forms. Fortunately, life support systems are 
now so reliable and efficient that travelers seldom consider the 
consequence of system failure.

To a space traveler from another, less developed galaxy, the 
Empire’s weapons of war would probably appear to be miracles 
as well. The standard blaster or laser cannon would be devastat­
ing, powerful magic. Again, the people of the Empire have lived 
with these wonders for so long that they are now commonplace.
In the final analysis, the fabric of the galactic community is 

bound together by cords of high technology. 

HYPERDRIVES

The hyperdrive is a miracle of technology. For over a thou­
sand generations, it has bound the galaxy together. Powered by 
incredibly   efficient  fusion   generators,  hyperdrive   engines   hurl 
ships   into hyperspace,  a  dimension   of space-time  that  allows 
faster-than-light travel. The theories and realities of hyperspace 
t   ravel   are   understood   by   few   but   highly-trained   hyperspace 
technicians   in   the   astrophysics   communities,   and   even   they 
admit that certain aspects remain a mystery.

Certain things are clear, through. Hyperspace is coterminous 
with   realspace:   each   point   in   realspace   is   associated   with   a 
unique point in hyperspace, and adjacent points in realspace are 
adjacent in hyperspace. In other words, if you travel “north” in 
realspace then jump to hyperspace, you’ll be heading “north” in 
hyperspace   as   well.   Objects   in   realspace   have   a   “shadow”   in 
hyperspace. That is, there is a star (or star-like object) in hyper­
space at the same location as it occupies in realspace, and this is 
a danger to those traveling in hyperspace. Colliding with even 
the smallest objects at hyperspace velocities is often deadly.

This   is   why   astrogation   and   astrogation   computers   are   so 
important,   and   why   they   are   standard   aboard   most   hyper­
drive-equipped   ships.   Careful   calculations   must   be   made   to 
assure   that   a   hyperspace-traveling   ship   doesn’t   smash   into   a 
planet or star while hurtling through this dimension; only the 
desperate — or foolhardy — attempt hyperspace jumps without 
up-to-date astrogation charts and astrogation droids or com­
puters. 

Many droids and astrogation computers used on starfighters 
are capable of containing data for only one hyperspace jump at 
a time; others, such as the Rebel Alliance Y-wing, can hold up to 
ten jumps without being reprogrammed.

Larger starships, such as Imperial Star Destroyers and similar 
models, have large on-board astrogation computers capable of 
virtually  unlimited   jump   calculations   and   actually  store   jump 
coordinates   for  almost   every   foreseeable   destination  the   ship 
may wish to reach.

Even with sophisticated astrogation machines, mistakes are 
not uncommon. There are millions of stars in the galaxy, and bil­
lions of planets (not to mention asteroids and other debris), and 
space is not static — what was a safe course a few days ago may 
now be filled with debris from an exploded starship or collision 
between larger bodies. Authorities estimate that the locations of 
more   than   90   percent   of   all   large   bodies   in   the   galaxy   are 
unknown!   With   all   these   variables,   even   the   largest,   most 
sophisticated   computers,   operated   by   the   most   experienced 
astrogators  can plot a fatal path through hyperspace — even 
along well-traveled routes. While it is possible to change course 
while in  hyperspace, this  tactic is  especially dangerous  — the 
most minor error can send a ship careening thousands of light 
years off course.

Still, space is largely empty. Millions of jumps are made daily 

— only a small fraction fail. 

SUBLIGHT DRIVES

Sublight   drives   move   spacecraft   through   realspace.   These 
engines provide more energy output than repulsorlift engines — 
which, since they require a large mass such as a planet for their  
antigrav engines to operate, are inappropriate for flights into 
deep space — and work much differently than their hyperdrive 
counterparts.

Though   many   varieties   of   sublight  drives   exist   throughout 
the galaxy — solid chemical booster rockets, atomic drives, light 
sails, ramjets — by far the most popular in the Empire is the 
Hoersch-Kessel ion engine. Originally brought into this part of 
the galaxy countless millennia ago by alien  merchants, today 
almost   all   of   the   major   ship   manufactures   put   Hoer­
sch-Kessel-style motors into their vessels.

The Hoersch-Kessel is extremely efficient and extremely pow­
erful. For most efficient use, the engine draws energy from pow­
er cells or generators. However, it  can be converted to break 
down and draw power from uranium, other heavy metals, or vir­
tually any substance. Liquid reactants, energy conversion cells, 
and even ion-collector pods are regularly employed for power.

Another point in the Hoersch-Kessel’s favor is its versatility. 
The   basic   technology   is   simple,   making   it   easy   to   construct 
drives for specific performance standards. A small version is used 
in   starfighters   and   other   high-performance   vessels;   larger 
engines can be produced for bigger ships. Not all H-K drives are 
identical: while each engine relies upon the same technological 
theory,   different   manufacturers  all   have  their  own   variations, 
each attempting to produce the most efficient design. 

Because of its widespread use throughout the galaxy, most 
ship mechanics know the H-K well; it is easy to find someone to 
fix it when it breaks down. It’s also easy to find replacement 
parts for most small and mid-size Hoersch-Kessels, though larg­
er or specialized ships may have to have parts manufactured. 
The H-K doesn’t break down often — it has few moving parts: 
however, for maximum efficiency, the engine’s intake and firing 
cells   require   precise   adjustment   and   alignment,   and   must   be 
“tuned up” periodically. If this maintenance is ignored for too 
long, the engine can be severely damaged or even ruined. 

Unlike   hyperdrive   engines,   which   propel   vessels   through 
hyperspace, the H-K moves ships in realspace via a fusion reac­
tion which breaks down fuel into charged particles. The result­
ing  energy   hurls   from   the  vessel,   providing  thrust.   The  ship’s

direction is controlled by changing the exhaust’s direction with 
baffles   or   so-called   “vectrals,”   or   by   smaller   H-K   engines 
employed as lateral thrusters.

While the H-K’s thrust is mildly radioactive and dangerous at 
extremely close ranges, it is safe enough to use in an atmos­
phere. The H-K’s most dangerous emissions are normally stopped 
by a series of collector coils, which are “scrubbed” and replaced 
during  regular  maintenance.   Maintenance   personnel   routinely 
wear   radiation-proof   clothing   (and   smart   ones   have   periodic 
anti-radiation inoculations as well). For situations where the H-
K cannot be used, a ship relies on its repulsorlift engines. 

Turbolasers. Heavy shipboard laser weapons require immense 
amounts of power to cut through the shields and armor of large 
military craft and to penetrate planetary defenses. To generate 
this power. turbolasers are equipped with turbine generators and 
banks of capacitors to build up and store the energy necessary 
to make a very powerful laser pulse. 

Because of the time needed to build up energy, turbolasers 
usually have a lower rate of fire than normal lasers, but deliver a 
bigger punch. Turbolasers are strictly regulated; in theory only 
the Empire, sector or local governments can construct or mount 
such weapons. 

ARMAMENT

There are other dangers inherent in space travel besides the 
natural phenomena already mentioned. Pirates, smugglers, and 
hostile aliens abound along the routes of space. Weaponry — 
both offensive and defensive — has developed in direct propor­
tion to star travel capabilities. 

Following   are   descriptions   of   the   most   common   offensive 
and defensive armaments in the Alliance and Imperial arsenals. 
Many are known by different names in different  sectors, and 
there may be subtle variations from system to system. However, 
the names and descriptions given follow standard Imperial Navy 
usage, which is also used by the Rebellion forces. 

While   other   weapons   exist   —   nuclear   warheads,   particle 
beams, nova generators, and other more primitive technologies 
— they are usually found in common usage only in the frontier 
or isolated regions. 

Laser  and Blaster Cannon.  The terms “laser”  and “blaster” 
are synonymous, except that “blaster” usually implies a smaller, 
lighter weapon. Ship-mounted lasers and weapons vary greatly 
in power.

Most smaller ships, such as light freighters and starfighters, 
have   some   form   of   weaponry.   In   addition   to   weapons   built 
specifically   for   starships,   some   weapons   are   converted   and 
redesigned from ground-forces armament. To do so, most such 
weapons   are   given   advanced   focusing   systems   to   keep   their 
beams   coherent   over   greater   dis­
tances.   Still   other   ships   use   smaller 
versions   of  the   weapons   in   common 
use on capital ships. 

Ion Cannon. When a commander wishes to render an enemy 
harmless,   rather   than   destroy   him   outright,   ion   weapons   are 
employed.   High-energy   ionized   particles,   when   fired   in   suffi­
cient strength, can wreak havoc with the sophisticated electron­
ics and controls of starships. These weapons are used primarily 
by planetary and system defense forces  (who are often more 
concerned with driving off or deterring an enemy than destroy­
ing him).

Ships use ion cannons to disable an enemy, then use their 
other more lethal weapons to finish him off. Ion weapons also 
allow pickets and fleet vessels to capture enemy vessels with rel­
atively minor damage. Pirates also use these weapons to disable 
choice targets and then board them. 

Proton   and   Concussion   Weapons.  Proton   torpedoes,   con­
cussion missiles, and bombs have become one of the primary 
surface-attack   weapons   of   light   space   forces.   This   is   because 
even  small  vessels,  such  as the Z-95 Headhunter and  the  TIE 
bomber, can carry these weapons and deliver them accurately 
from low altitudes flying at great speeds, allowing little time for  
point-defense systems to react.

Unlike heavier space bombardments by turbolasers mounted 
in immense Star Destroyers, these weapons are effective against 
ray-   and   energy-shielded   targets.   Complete   particle   shielding 
will deflect proton torpedoes, however. 

Proton torpedoes carry a proton-scattering energy warhead. 
Concussion weapons (both missiles and bombs) carry an armor-

Laser and blaster cannons are usu­
ally mounted on lightly armed vessels, 
such as starfighters and licensed com­
mercial   vessels.   They   are   capable   of 
rapid fire, but are prone to overheat­
ing. They usually output their power 
in   the   visual-light   spectrum,  so   that 
the   gunner   can   see   where   his   shots 
are going.

Some   lasers   can   be   altered   to 
change their beam color to any wave­
length   in   the   electromagnetic   spec­
trum.   This   allows   such   vessels   to 
attack   “invisibly”   (by   firing   in   the 
non-visible   spectrum)   to   gain   initial 
surprise, but because such attacks can 
be detected by sophisticated electron­
ic defense systems, this tactic is only 
of limited effectiveness.

piercing warhead containing a compact energy pack. When they 
explode,   such   weapons   give   off   powerful   concussive   blasts 
which  disrupt delicate instruments and equipment, and cause 
shock and blast damage to more durable targets. 

Tractor   Beams.  Over   the   millennia,   the   tractor   beam   has 
been altered from a commercial cargo-moving tool to an offen­
sive   weapon.   Military   tractor   beams   are   powerful   enough   to 
capture and arrest even an immense vessel in mid-flight.

The power of the tractor depends upon the size of generator 
driving it. and it usually follows that the larger the ship, the  
more powerful the pull of the tractor (however, some small and 
mid-sized commercial space tugs. which guide immense vehicles 
into orbiting dock facilities, have powerful tractors). 

According   to   current   military   doctrine,   tractor   beams   are 
employed to arrest the maneuverability of the target vessel, thus 
allowing the attacking ship’s weapons to bear upon the targets 
with greater accuracy. However, it is extremely difficult for the 
tractor to lock on to fast-moving targets, and ships can break 
the tractor’s grip if they can maneuver beyond the beam’s cov­
ering arc. 

SHIELDS

There are two types of shields: particle shields and ray/energy 
shields. Both are needed for complete protection, and generally 
all military ships are equipped with shields of both types. 

Particle shielding protects against missiles and space debris. 
but it must be temporarily turned off if the vessel wishes to fire 
missiles of its own or launch or receive shuttlecraft. Aside from 
those exceptions, particle shields are on at all times. For game 
purposes, any time a ship has to lower its particle shields. it is  
considered to have a hull code −2D lower than the listed code. 

Ray/energy shielding protects strictly against lasers or other 
energy beams, it does not stop matter. Ray shields require large 
amounts of energy to maintain; most vessels only employ them 
when going into combat. Since this shielding is useful only in 
combat,   its   application   is   somewhat   restricted.   Non-Imperial 
vessels must apply for permits to carry ray/energy shielding and 
show just cause for why they need it. Fear of piracy is usually 
enough to secure standard permission.) 

SENSORS

The term “sensor” describes a whole range of complex devices 
that detect and analyze many forms of data — light, radio and 
other electromagnetic emissions; sound. motion and vibration; 
gravitational, nuclear and magnetic fields; heat, pressure. and t 
race   chemicals;   and   even   other   sensors.   Essentially,   anything 
that enhances a person’s ability to receive data about his envi­
ronment — from macrobinoculars to radiation counters to radar 
to long-range electromagnetic flux detectors — is a sensor.

While the majority of ships use sensors for peaceful purposes 
— navigation, collision avoidance, research, and exploration — 
the current Rebellion and the rise of piracy in many outlying 
systems is forcing many ships to purchase new sensors or recon­
figure their existing ones to be combat-quality.

The most important task by far for military sensors is ship 
detection. Considering the massive punch warships pack, quite

often the first shot in a battle decides the winner. To find each 
other,  ships use sensors  which  scan  for heat, electromagnetic 
energy,   gravitational   disturbance,   motion,   radio   waves,   light 
refraction, and more.

Many sensors analyze a broad spectrum of data from several 
sensing inputs. others focus on particular types of energy, fields 
or objects. Sensor ranges vary from short (a few kilometers) to 
extremely long (up to one million kilometers), with specialized 
sensors usually having greater range. Because of size and com­
puter limitations, smaller starfighters must usually rely upon the 
broad-range sensors; larger ships have many different special­
ized sensors.

While this usually gives the sensing edge to larger vessels, it’s 
not all that simple. Large vessels are bigger targets: they radiate 
more energy, they reflect more light, they cause more gravita­
tional disturbances. As an analogy, while a rancor may have a 
better sense of hearing than you do. you are as likely to hear it 
crashing through the woods as it is you.

Common Military Sensor Types

Thousands of different sensors exist. Naturally, some are more 
sensitive than others. None are perfect; even the best sensors 
can   fail   to   detect   when   they   should,   or   can   detect   “ghost” 
images that don’t really exist. Solar radiation, hydrogen clouds, 
asteroid fields, strong gravity wells, and other natural phenome­
na   can   interfere   or   even   block   sensors.   Of   course,   deliberate 
jamming   or   concealment   can   also   hide   things   from   sensors. 
Below is a list of some of the more common sensor types.

Electro   Photo   Receptors   (EPRs).  These   are   the   simplest 
sensing devices. They combine data from sophisticated normal 
light,   ultraviolet   (UV),   and   infrared   OR)   telescopes   to   form   a 
composite   holo   or   two-dimensional   picture.   Useful   only   at 
shorter ranges. Most targeting sensors use EPRs.

Full-Spectrum Transceivers (FSTs). FSTs are frequently called 
“universal   sensors”   because  they  use  a   variety  of   scanners   to 
detect all types of objects, energies and fields — but they are 
not very sensitive. The size of their receptor determines their 
effectiveness;   receptor   dishes   must   be   quite   large   to   detect 
accurately   or   at   long   range.   Most   non-combat   ships   are 
equipped only with FSTs.

Dedicated Energy Receptors (DERs). DERs detect any elec­
tromagnetic emission within range of the sensor array, including 
comlink   transmissions,   navigational   beacons,   heat,   laser   light, 
and similar emissions. The DER’s accuracy is determined by the 
skill of the operator, whether person or computer: as DERs col­
lect all energy emissions, sorting out the important information 
from useless data is crucial. A poor operator could mistakenly 
identify a stray cosmic ray as a brief enemy communication sig­
nal; an expert operator may filter through a screen of static to 
uncover the signature of a ship trying to sneak by. DERs are the 
primary passive sensor device in military sensor arrays.

Crystal Gravfieid Traps (CGTs).  These expensive sensors uti­
lize a synthetic crystal grid to detect gravitic field fluctuations. 
High quality CGTs can detect and identify any fluctuations in 
the   gravity   field   for   hundreds   of   thousands   of   kilometers 
around. 

CGTs can be blocked by the presence of mass. For example, a 
CGT will strongly register a nearby planet’s presence, but may 
miss a ship in orbit on the other side of the planet. 

Hyperwave Signal Interceptors (HSIs).  These sensors detect 
fluctuations   in   hyperspace.   Whenever   a   ship   enters   or   exits 
hyperspace, the local hyperspace field Is disturbed — the mass 
and speed of the vessel determining the size of the disturbance. 
Ships nearby carrying HSIs can detect the disturbance. HSIs can­
not determine a ship’s origin or destination, but they can record 
the entry to or exit from hyperspace.

In addition to detecting ships moving in and out of hyper­
space, HSIs can detect and sometimes tap into hyperradio trans­
missions (such as those sent by HoloNet or subspace radio). This 
is important since most hyperradio communications are broad­
cast on very narrow bandwidths and are normally very difficult 
to detect. Decoding such messages is another matter entirely.

Life Form Indicators (LFIs). LFIs aren’t actually sensors; they 
are sophisticated computer programs which examine the output 
of other sensors to determine if a life form is present, and, if so, 
what life form it is. For example, an FST sensor might determine 
that   there   is   a   mobile   heat-source   (outputting   heat   at   30 
degrees Celsius) on that space ship, the source masses at 80 kilo­
grams, the ship’s atmosphere contains large amounts of sulfur, 
and the  ship’s  gravity  is  set  at  .96  Standard;  an  LFI  program 
would examine that data and decide that the ship probably con­
tained a Sullustan.

The quality of a ship’s LFI is determined by the sensitivity of 

the ship’s sensors and the intelligence of its computer. 

Sensor Countermeasures 

Jamming   Sensors.  Jamming   is   the   most   common   active 
countermeasure. Powerful generators can flood large areas with 
static and random signals, confusing and “blinding” sensors. One 
drawback to jamming is  that while the exact position  of the 
jamming vessel may be concealed by the jamming, the jammer 
is broadcasting his general location to everybody in the area. In 
addition, jamming affects everyone — friend as well as foe. 

Sensor Decoys. Ships can fool enemy sensors by sending out 
small pods or shuttles which broadcast the same signals a large 
ship emits naturally. Only exceptionally sensitive sensors can tell 
the difference between a good decoy and a real ship.

Sensor Stealth. By purposefully reducing all emissions, ships 
can   greatly   reduce   the   chance   of   discovery.   Turning   off   the 
engines and drifting is often the first and most effective evasion 
technique. Ships drifting on battery or power capacitors are far 
less likely to be detected, but of course can’t operate long with­
out turning on power generators for life support. 

Ships   trying   to   evade   detection   can   also   shut   down   their 
active   sensors.   Although   this   makes   them   much   harder   to 
detect, it also leaves them blind.

“Running silent” is a standard technique; while on patrol or 
otherwise   attempting   to   remain   undetected,   ships   send   no 
transmissions. Communication blackouts are difficult to main­
tain   when   several   ships   are   operating   together,   since   course, 
timing, and mission changes must be transmitted between the 
vessels. 

SENSOR MODES

Passive:  Passive   sensors   examine   energy   emitted   by 
other   sources   (heat   detectors,   or   simple   telescopes,   for 
example). They don’t project any energies to detect infor­
mation. Less effective than active sensors, passive sensors 
use less energy and don’t increase the sensing unit’s “visi­
bility.”

Sensor   Sweeps:  These   sensors   are   active   and   emit 
pulses of energy and examine the reflected or “bounced” 
energy (radar. for example). Extremely effective at short 
and medium range, less so at long range. Because the sen­
sor is giving off controlled bursts of energy, the sensing 
vessel is relatively easy to spot by other sensors. There are 
three   prime   modes   of   sensor   sweep:  scan,  search  and 
focus.

Scan:  Look   at   everything   around   the   entire   vessel. 
These sensors search the entire area around the vessel, but 
cannot provide the range or detailed information of sen­
sors in search mode.

Search: Only look for a specific type of target, such as 
a ship or a particular radio frequency. The operator must 
specify what to search for. Search modes function in one 
direction,   for   example,   to   the   front,   left,   right   or   back 
(sensor modes “warp” so while scanning “left,” the sensor 
also searches to the top and bottom of the left portion of 
the ship). When several ships fly in formation, pilots often 
“search” their sensors on overlapping areas. For example, 
the lead pilot may focus his sensors directly ahead, while 
other pilots in his wing focus to each side and behind.

Focus:  Concentrate   the   sensors   on   a   particular   area 
selected by the pilot. This makes for much better informa­
tion about the area on which sensors are focused, but pro­
vides little or no information about other areas. This mode 
is often used once something “unusual” has been detected 
by more general sensors sweeps. 

Cloaking   Device.  The   ultimate   sensor   countermeasure,   a 
cloaking device is an experimental shield which creates a subtle 
warp in the fabric of space surrounding the vessel, causing all  
forms of energy to slip around the ship as if it weren’t there,  
making   the   ship   practically   invisible.   Exact   specifications   and 
technical data of cloaking devices are among the most high­
ly-classified in the Empire.

Cloaking devices are extremely rare. They are among the most 
sophisticated and complicated devices known; only a few highly 
skilled engineers can operate and maintain them. They are not in 
general  production:  each  must be  custom  built  for  a specific 
ship.   In   addition,   cloaking   devices   are   enormously   expensive; 
reportedly over one billion credits apiece!

The Empire has declared cloaking devices illegal —class one 
contraband. Unauthorized manufacture. sale, purchase or use of 
a cloaking device are crimes punishable by death.

Because of the expense and difficulty of maintenance, very 
few   Imperial   ships   are   equipped   with   cloaking   devices.   It   is 
rumored that the Emperor’s personal shuttle has one, and possi­
bly a new experimental Star Destroyer.

No   Rebel   ships   are   known   to   be   equipped   with   cloaking 

devices. 

LIFE SUPPORT

Every starship has a life support sys­
tem that allows the ship’s occupants to 
survive the harsh environment of space 
in relative comfort. The type of environ­
ment   the   system   produces   depends 
upon   the   type   of   occupant   it   must 
accommodate.   All   life   support   systems 
must provide a breathable atmosphere, 
and   most   also   provide   a   comfortable 
gravitational environment.

The most common atmosphere-gen­
erating   life   support   systems   are   built 
around chemical converters. Either bio­
logical or synthetic converters take the 
pilot’s and passengers’ waste elements, 
such as carbon dioxide, and convert them into usable form. In 
starfighters,   converters   are   simply   miniature   recycling   plants; 
but in large starships, converters may be gigantic systems, able 
to support many different living organisms.

Some starfighters — notably the Imperial TIE series — do not 
have   atmospheric   converters   built   into   them;   instead   each 
pilot’s space suit contains a converter.

Many starships come equipped with converters that can be 
set to provide comfortable environs for many different species. 
Of course, this capability is limited by the physical characteris­
tics   of   the   ship’s   interior:   the   design   of   life   support   systems 
mush take into account the ship’s probable occupants.

Aside   from   providing   an   atmosphere,   life   support   systems 
must also provide a gravitational environment for the pilots and 
passengers. In most starfighters, modified repulsorlift technolo­
gy is used to create an antigravity field within the cockpit which 
negates most or all gee force effects that come into play as a 
result of the ship’s maneuvers. The overall effect upon the pilot 
is   a   constant   low   or   zero-gravity   environment,   regardless   of 
acceleration, deceleration, turning, and so on.

In   larger   starships,   the   situation   is   vastly   different.   Huge 
gravity   generators,   powered   from   the   ship’s   main   engines   or 
auxiliary power  cells,  create  constant  gravitational   fields   that 
can be tailored and adjusted to fit ships occupants. On luxury 
liners, for example, certain areas of the ship maintain lighter 
fields than others to provide for elderly passengers for whom 
locomotion has become difficult; other areas maintain zero-g 
fields for sports competitions; other areas such as cargo bays 
may maintain strong fields to ensure stability. Of course, a luxu­
ry liner is also compartmentalized with respect to the various 
species which journey aboard, and each compartment’s gravita­
tional field must be adjusted for the passengers It contains. Oth­
er mid-sized and larger starships, such as light freighters, have 
gravity generators as well, but they are usually not as flexible.

Probably the most impressive life support systems are found 
aboard Ithorian vessels. These were modeled after the “herds” in 
which  the Ithorians live on their planet’s surface. These ships 
maintain an atmosphere and gravity field so much like the plan­
et itself that the Ithorians  have brought a  bit of their home 
planet to the stars with them. Miniature jungles, complete with 
vegetation   and   small   animal   life   in   natural   habitats,   thrive 
aboard these ships. 

ESCAPE EQUIPMENT

Imperial directives require every spacefaring vessel to include 
some form of emergence escape system. Operating licenses are 
denied to vessels that fail to meet these directives, but some 
ships   slip   through   the   bureaucratic   net.   In   theory,   each   ship 
must have an escape system capable of handling every passen­
ger  on   board.  In  practice,  Imperial  observers   grant   licenses   if 
vessels have systems that can handle at least one-fourth of a 
ship’s standard complement. 

Ejection Seats.  Small one- and two-man transport vehicles 
and starfighter-class vessels use a standard ejection seat escape 
system. The ejection seat system relies greatly on a passenger’s 
use of a full environmental flight suit, and even then survival in 
deep space is unlikely without immediate rescue. Ideally, ejec­
tion systems work best when  the craft is in a planet’s atmo­
spheric   field.   “Crash-worthy”   seats   contain   built-in   oxygen 
recirculators and heating elements that lower ejected seats to 
the ground. 

Only crew members wearing environmental flight suits with 
their helmets sealed can hope to survive ejection into space. The 
seats generally contain a 29-hour oxygen recirculator and heat­
ing element, but even so, few pilots survive if they aren’t picked 
up within a few hours. Most survivable ejections occur outside 
ship hangars or in atmospheres near a base (when pilots “ditch” 
fighters that are too damaged to land safely, for example). In 
such cases. an antigrav unit powered by a Belanti repulsorlift 
engine lowers the seat onto the strongest nearby gravity source, 
whether it’s a ship or planet surface. 

Escape   Pods.  Larger  vessels   are  equipped   with   emergency 
escape pods. Ranging from one or two in light freighters to sev­
eral hundred stored in giant lifeboat bays aboard Star Destroy­
ers, escape pods are basically emergency space capsules capable 
of limited flight and maneuverability located at key positions in 
a ship’s hull to provide quick access in case of an emergency. 
Once loaded, an escape pod is released via explosive separator 
charges   and   pneumatically   or   ballistically   propelled   from   the 
ship.

If the pod is used in deep space, the crew must point the pod 
in the general direction of the nearest occupied planet or space 
lane, fire the rockets, and hope that someone hears the distress 
beacon.

Though equipped to land on a planet, escape pods usually 
carry   no   repulsorlift   engines.   Instead.   they   rely   on   inflatable 
flotation   devices.   parachutes   and   their   directional   rockets   to 
land safely. Minimal fuel capacity allows only enough power for 
minute  directional   adjustments  and  some   breaking   once   in   a 
planet’s atmosphere.

Pods are stocked with limited amounts of emergency food 
and water rations (usually two- to three-weeks’ worth), survival 
gear, flares, and medpacs. Larger escape pods, called “life boats” 
are also common among the larger space vessels. These boats 
can carry from 10 to 50 people, depending on their size, and are 
actually small  space ships  in  their own  right. They are better 
stocked than the small pods and can support passengers for a 
longer   duration.   Some   are   equipped   with   sublight   engines:   a 
few even contain small hyperdrives. 

STARSHIP STATISTICS

of important game statistics. All starships provide full cover for 
their occupants. In addition, each ship’s statistics include:

Craft: The ship’s manufacturer, name, and model number.
Type: The ship’s general classification.
Scale: The ship’s scale — starfighter or capital.
Length: How long the ship is.
Skill: The skill used to operate the ship, followed by the specialization 

for its use.

Crew: The first listing is the total crew for the ship under normal con­
ditions.(A listing for “can combine” is the number of people who 
can combine to perform an action. Each ship has one prime person 
responsible for keeping control, running sensors, calculating hyper­
space jumps and the like. On  smaller ships, one  person may  be 
responsible for all of these duties, while on larger ships, one person 
may be in charge of each of these functions. While there might be 
hundreds  of   support  crew   manning  the  machinery,  whether  the 
action succeeds comes down to one character’s skill roll — hence 
the crew skill listing. The “can combine” is the number of extra 
crew members who may be able to assist, such as when Chewbac­
ca acts as co-pilot for the Millennium Falcon. Use the “Combined 
Action” rules in the chapter on “The Rules.”)

The second number is the number of gunners; gunners are list­

ed in addition to the normal crew complement.

The final number is the ”skeleton crew” listing: the first part of 
the listing is the absolute minimum number of crewmembers nec­
essary to fly the ship, while the number behind the slash is the 
increase   in   difficulty   for   any   actions   with   a   skeleton   crew.   For 
example,   if   a   listing   is   “skeleton:   130/+10,”   that   indicates   that 
there must be a minimum of 130 crew aboard to operate the ves­
sel, and all crew must add +10 to the difficulty number for all 
maneuvering, movement and shielding actions. This modifier does  
not apply to gunnery difficulties.

Crew Skill:  Typical skill codes for crewmembers trained for that job: 
starfighter pilots will have all the skills; capital ship crewmen will 
have just the skill for the job that they have been trained in. Co-
pilots and assistants typically have −1D to each skill code.

Passengers: The number of passengers and troops that may be carried 

(beyond the crew complement).

Cargo Capacity: This indicates — either in metric tons or kilograms — 
the amount of cargo a ship can carry. This refers to the cargo’s 
mass only, not volume.

Consumables:  A measure of the ship’s air, food, water and fuel and 
how   long  it   can  travel   before   having  to   stop  for  refueling   and 
resupply.

Hyperdrive Multiplier: This measures how quickly the ship travels in 

hyperspace.

Hyperdrive Backup:  Some ships have a backup hyperdrive for emer­

gencies. This is the backup’s hyperdrive multiplier.

Nav Computer: “Yes” or “No.” Ships with nav computers may calcu­
late   hyperspace   journeys   with   their   on-board   computers.   Ships 
without   nav   computers   require   astromech   droids   to   calculate 
hyperspace journeys.

Maneuverability:  The ship’s maneuverability die code when in outer 
space.   Normally,   the   ship’s   maneuverability   is   the   same   in   an 
atmosphere. If the ship has a different maneuverability for atmo­
spheric travel, it will be listed in parentheses.

Space:  How  fast  the  ship  travels  at  sublight  speeds   in space.  This 

speed is used in ship-to-ship combat.

Atmosphere:  How fast the ship travels in an atmosphere. The first 
number is its Move, the second number is its all-out speed in kilo­
meters per hour. If there is no “atmosphere” listing, the ship cannot 
enter an atmosphere.

Hull: This is how tough the hull of the ship is and how well the ship 

can withstand damage in combat.

Shields: The ship’s combat shields.
Sensors: The different sensor types and their abilities (see the sensors 

skill for more details).

Weapon:  The  number and type  of weapon on the  ship.  Fire-linked 
means the weapons are linked and fire as one group. Otherwise, 
each weapon may be fired separately.
Fire Arc: Front, left, right, back or turret. Turret weapons may fire in 

all four arcs.

Crew:  The crew necessary to man the weapon. If there is no crew 
listing, the weapon may be fired by the pilot. The variable num­
bers are treated the same as ship’s crew.
Scale: The scale, if different than the ship’s scale.
Skill: The skill used to fire the weapon.
Fire Control: Add these dice whenever the gunner shoots to hit.
Space Range: Short, medium and long ranges in units.
Atmosphere Range:  Short, medium and long ranges in an atmos­

phere or firing into an atmosphere from orbit.

Damage: This is the weapon’s damage.

Note: Not all of these stats will be necessary in the course of 
the game. In combat, only the ship’s scale, speed, maneuverabili­
ty, hull code, weapons, shields, and in the case of capital ships, 
crew codes are of immediate value. Other stats (such as cargo 
capacity) are provided to help the gamemaster maintain consis­
tency in the course of an ongoing campaign.

STARFIGHTERS

Starfighters  are   short-range   combat   vessels   with   a   small 
crew complement (usually limited to a pilot and co-pilot). These 
ships emphasize speed and maneuverability over durability, and 
normally are heavily-armed. These ships are normally designed 
for   very   short   (but   intense)   duty   periods,   and   thus   are   very 
effective   in   battle,   but   only   for   limited   amounts   of   time. 
Starfighters are rather expensive, and serve only one role: the 
destruction   of   enemy   ships.   Starfighter   technology   advances 
very quickly, and most fleets must expend a huge portion of 
their budgets to train pilots and keep them equipped with cut­
ting-edge ships. Some of the most famous Starfighters include 
the New Republic’s X-wing, the Empire’s TIE fighter, and the leg­
endary   (but   outdated)   Z-95   Headhunter;   pilots   use   the 
starfighter piloting skill to fly these versatile combat vessels.

Aethersprite Interceptor

Kuat Systems Engineering developed the Delta-7 Aethersprite 
when Jedi Master Saesee Tiin suggested that the Jedi form its 
own corps of starfighter pilots. In the time prior to the Clone 
Wars, these fighters provided an economical — and combat-ef­
fective — means for Jedi to get from place to place. Despite its  
utility the Delta-7 was distinctly Jedi in nature. For this reason, 
it was rarely used by Jedi during covert operations. 

Although the design was well 
received by the Jedi, Saesee Tiin was none­
theless dissatisfied with the Aethersprite light inter­
ceptor’s performance. He insisted on modifying two
Aethersprites   to   his   own   specifications,   adding   additional 
weaponry,   a   hyperdrive   of   his   own   design,   and   a   meditation 
chair in place of the pilot’s seat.

The Delta-7 is available only to Jedi through the Supreme 
Chancellor’s office, and is not legally available on the open mar­
ket. The prices given are for a Delta-7 found on the black mar ­
ket, which is rare but not unheard of.

The Delta-7 was conceived primarily as a light reconnaissance 
starfighter,   and   its   relatively   light   armament   reflects   this. 
Though   not   designed   for   extended   combat   operations,   the 
Aethersprite is a capable weapons platform when  flown by a 
Jedi pilot.

Like its successor, the Eta-2  Actis-class Interceptor, the Jedi 
Starfighter is not hyperdrive capable, and it requires a separate 
hyperdrive module to travel long distances.

 DELTA-7 AETHERSPRITE STARFIGHTER

Craft: Kuat Systems Engineering Delta-7 Aethersprite-class Starfight­

er

Type: Starfighter
Scale: Starfighter
Length: 8 meters
Skill: Starfighter piloting: Delta-7
Crew: 1 and modified astromech droid (can coordinate)
Crew Skill: All skills typically at 4D
Cargo Capacity: 60 kilograms
Consumables: 1 week
Cost: 180,000 (new), 145,000 (used), both prices are black market val­

ue

Hyperdrive Multiplier: x1 (with booster ring, see below)
Nav Computer:  Uses a modified astromech droid programmed with 

10 jumps

Maneuverability: 3D
Space: 10
Atmosphere: 415; 1,200 kmh
Hull: 2D
Shields: 1D
Sensors:

Passive: 25/1D
Scan: 45/2D
Search: 65/2D+2
Focus: 3/3D+1

Weapons:
2 Dual Lasers (fire-linked)

Fire Arc: Front
Skill: Starship gunnery
Fire Control: 2D
Space Range: 1-3/12/25
Atmosphere Range: 100-300/1.2/2.5 km
Damage: 5D

Notes: The Delta-7 requires a separate hyperdrive module in the form 
of a booster ring (the TransGalMeg Industries hyperdrive booster 
ring).   Docking   with  the   ring   takes  3  rounds   to accomplish,  and 
requires   a   Difficult  starfighter   piloting  skill   check   (the   fighter’s 
maneuverability counts for this roll).

Additionally,   the   Delta-7   incorporates   a   specially-designed 
astromech   droid   (R4-P   series),   which   is   hardwired   into   the 
starfighter.   Without   the   proper   droid,   the   pilot   suffers   a   −1D 
penalty to his astrogation skill checks. The droid suffers the same 
penalty to both its astrogation and starfighter repair skill checks.

ARC-170 Starfighter

The Aggressive ReConnaissance fighter, or ARC-170 — devel­
oped as a joint venture by the Incom and Subpro Corporations — 
serves as both a long-range scout and a heavy assault fighter. 
The ACR-170 is part of a line of starfighters, including the Z-95 
Headhunter, that eventually led to the development of the X-
wing. The narrow frame, flanked by powerful twin engines and 
S-foils, was innovative at the time of the ARC-170’s introduc­
tion. Though it served with distinction during the later days of  
the Clone Wars, the fighter was never built in the vast numbers 
of many other designs.

The ARC-170’s ultimate failing was not lack of firepower or 
ability,   but   the   high   supply   cost   to   keep   it   in   combat.   The 
starfighter needs regular maintenance and requires a three-per­
son crew making it expensive in terms of training, personnel, 
and upkeep. As a result, once the TIE fighter replaced it in Impe­
rial squadrons, there was very little demand for the ARC-170. 
Though some were liberated by the Rebellion most were moth­
balled or scrapped simply because the Rebels lacked the flight 
crews   and   repair   bays   necessary  to  keep   the   older   ARC-170s 
ready for combat. 

The   ARC-170   is   a   heavy-hitting   fighter,   with   long-range 
capabilities and enough stowage to operate for 5 days without 
resupply. Though taxing, it was possible for the crew to sleep in 
shifts, allowing the starfighter to be alert and ready for action 
for days at a time. This made it popular as a scout and a picket 
ship,  keeping an eye on  likely  targets,  enemy  forces, or  even 
friendly  planets   until   larger   ships   could  arrive  for  permanent 
duty. An ARC-170 could be sent deep into enemy territory, and 
its shield generator gave it a good chance of surviving even if it 
ran into a larger force of fighters when performing such mis­
sions.

The durability and range of the vessel came at a cost, howev­
er. The ARC-170 has slow acceleration and poor maneuverability 
compared to smaller fighters. 

 ARC-170

Craft: Incom/Subpro ARC-170 (Aggressive ReConn)
Type: Space superiority fighter
Scale: Starfighter
Length: 14.5 meters
Skill: Starfighter piloting: ARC-170
Crew: 2 and astromech droid 

     (can coordinate), gunners: 1, skeleton: 1/+10

Cargo Capacity: 110 kilograms
Consumables: 5 days
Cost: 155,000 (new), 70,000 (used)
Hyperdrive Multiplier: x1.5
Nav Computer: No (uses astromech with 10 jumps)
Maneuverability: 2D
Space: 7
Atmosphere: 350; 1,000 kmh
Hull: 4D+2
Shields: 1D
Sensors:

Passive: 25/0D
Scan: 50/1D
Search: 70/2D
Focus: 3/3D+1

Weapons:
2 Medium Laser Cannons (fire linked)

Fire Arc: Front
Skill: Starship gunnery
Fire Control: 2D
Space Range: 1-3/12/25
Atmosphere Range: 100-300/1.2/2.5 km
Damage: 5D+2

2 Laser Cannons (fire linked)

Fire Arc: Rear turret
Crew: 1
Skill: Starship gunnery
Fire Control: 2D
Space Range: 1-3/10/20
Atmosphere Range: 100-300/12/2 km
Damage: 4D+1

Proton Torpedo Launcher (6 torpedoes)

Fire Arc: Front
Skill: Starship gunnery
Fire Control: 2D
Space Range: 1/3/7
Atmosphere Range: 30-100/300/700
Damage: 9D

A-Wing

Development of the A-wing began in secret shortly after the 
Battle   of   Yavin.   General   Dodonna   realized   that   the   speed   of 
Imperial fighters had nearly cost the Alliance its victory, and he 
intended to remedy the situation by designing a newer, faster 
starfighter. With the aid of starship engineer Walex Blissex, the 
A-wing   was   born.   Although   not   as   durable   as   other   Alliance 
starfighters, the A-wing is often  considered to be the fastest 
starfighter to see service during the Galactic Civil War. 

Though the A-wing is a finicky spacecraft that is often diffi­
cult to maintain in the field, it has proven itself to be a capable 
strike  fighter   and  reconnaissance   craft.   Due   to  its   speed   and 
maneuverability, it excels at “hit and fade” operations and surgi­
cal strikes carried out behind enemy lines. Despite its relatively 
light armament, the A-wing is deadly in the hands of a skilled 
pilot. During the Battle of Endor, A-wings were responsible for 
the destruction of the Super Star Destroyer Executor. 

A-wings are phenomenally fast and agile spacecraft, making 
them capable dogfighters. A-wing pilots quickly learn to use this 
fact to their advantage in battle, for even a single hit from an 
enemy weapon can mean a quick and fiery death. During its 
earliest months in service, the A-wing was armed only with laser 
cannons and a sophisticated suite of electronic jammers. In time, 
many   A-wings   were   modified   to   carry   concussion   missile 
launchers, adding to the nimble ship’s versatility. (This configu­
ration was standard by the time of the New Republic.)

The A-wing’s jamming system is capable of blinding enemy 
sensors and fire-control computers, making it an even more elu­
sive target. The effectiveness of the jamming suite is limited to 
small craft and space transports, and does little more than make 
the A-wing a more tempting target for capital-scale ships.

 A-WING

Craft: Alliance A-wing Starfighter
Type: Interceptor and multi-purpose starfighter
Scale: Starfighter
Length: 9.6 meters
Skill: Starfighter Piloting: A-wing
Crew Skill:  Starfighter piloting  5D,  starship gunnery  4D+2,  starship  

shields 3D+1

Crew: 1
Cargo Capacity: 40 kilograms
Consumables: 1 week
Cost: 175,000 (new) 70,000 (used)
Hyperdrive Multiplier: x1
Nav Computer: Yes (limited to 2 jumps)
Maneuverability: 4D
Space: 12
Atmosphere: 450; 1,300 kmh
Hull: 2D+2
Shields: 1D
Sensors:

Passive: 30/0D
Scan: 50/1D
Search: 75/2D
Focus: 4/4D+1

Weapons:
2 Laser Cannons (fire linked)

Fire Arc: Front
Skill: Starship gunnery
Fire Control: 3D
Space Range: 1-3/12/25
Atmosphere Range: 100-300/1.2/2.5 km
Damage: 5D

2 Medium Concussion Missile Launchers (6 missiles each)

Fire Arc: Front
Skill: Starship gunnery
Space Range: 1/3/7
Atmosphere Range: 30-100/300/700
Damage: 8D

Enemy Targeting Jammer

Fire Arc: All
Skill: Sensors
Space Range: 1-3/7/15
Atmosphere Range: 100-300/700/1.5 km
Damage: −2D from Fire Control

B-Wing

Designed   by   Admiral   Ackbar   the   B-wing   starfighter   is   a 
mobile   weapons   platform   designed   to   provide   heavy   assault 
support   to   the   Rebel   fleet.   Possessing   a   unique   design   that 
includes   folding   S-foils   and   a   cockpit   that   rotates   within   its 
housing in the starfighter’s superstructure, the B-wing is a diffi­
cult craft to master. Heavily armed with a variety of weapons,

it  

though  

the B-wing can deliver a pun­
ishing   blow   to   slower   targets 
  ships), 
(particularly   capital
lacks   the 
maneuverability   of 
other   contem­
porary   fighters, 
such   as   the   X-
wing   or   the   A-

wing.
Capital   ships   often   find   the   B-
wing   starfighter   to   be   an   extremely 
dangerous opponent. Particularly fear­
some are the proton torpedoes, which 
can be brought to bear against a star­
ship with devastating results. In fact, a 
squadron   of   B-wing   fighters   was 
responsible for destroying an Imperial 
Star Destroyer at the Battle of Endor, 
a   feat   that   no   other   fighter 
type could claim at the battle. 
With   a   gunner   aboard,   a   B-
wing   fighter   can   unleash   its 
weapons in deadly pairs, giving the fighter a slight advantage 
even in dogfighting. 

Despite its durability and exceptional armament, the B-wing 
starfighter is still slow, sluggish, and difficult to operate. As a 
result,   most   B-wing   attack   groups   usually   have   an   escort   of 
faster   and  more  maneuverable   starfighters,   protecting  the  B-
wing until it can slip past the first line of enemy defenses and 
strike at a vulnerable target. 

B-wings also feature exceptionally modular weapon systems, 
allowing them to be modified as per the needs of the mission. 
When swapping out one of the B-wing’s weapon systems for 
another   weapon   system,   reduce   the   time   taken   to   make   the 
modification by half. 

Running the B-wing. The B-wing features a very sophisticat­
ed but fragile gyroscopically-stabilized command pod, as well as 
a ranging mode for the laser cannon. If, for some reason, the 
laser is not operational, reduce all fire control codes by −1D.

The B-wing’s stabilization system fails when it suffers heavy 
damage. In game terms, when the fighter is heavily damaged, a 
roll of 1-2 (used to determine which system is damaged) means 
the stabilization system has failed. Reduce all fire control codes 
by −1D (since the craft is no longer a stable weapons platform). 
Sublight speed falls from 6 to 2 (atmosphere speed goes from 
330; 950 kmh to 225; 650 kmh). These penalties are cumulative.

 B-WING

Craft: Slayn & Korpil B-Wing
Type: Heavy assault starfighter
Scale: Starfighter
Length: 16.9 meters
Skill: Starfighter piloting: B-wing
Crew: 1
Crew  Skill:  Starfighter piloting 5D, starship gunnery 4D+2, starship  

shields 3D+1

Cargo Capacity: 45 kilograms
Consumables: 1 week
Cost: 220,000 (new) 120,000 (used_
Hyperdrive Multiplier: x2
Nav Computer: Yes (limited to 2 jumps)

Maneuverability: 1D+1
Space: 6
Atmosphere: 330; 950 kmh
Hull: 3D
Shields: 2D
Sensors:

Passive: 30/0D
Scan: 50/1D
Search: 75/2D
Focus: 4/4D+1

Weapons:
Laser Cannon

Fire Arc: Front
Skill: Starship gunnery
Fire Control: 1D
Space Range: 1-3/12/25
Atmosphere Range: 100-300/1.2/2.5 km
Damage: 7D

2 Proton Torpedo Launchers (8 torpedoes each)

Fire Arc: Front
Skill: Starship gunnery
Fire Control: 3D
Space Range: 1/3/7
Atmosphere Range: 50-100/300/700
Damage: 9D

3 Medium Ion Cannons

Fire Arc: Front
Skill: Starship gunnery
Fire Control: 4D
Space Range: 1-3/7/15
Atmosphere Range: 100-300/700/3.6 km
Damage: 4D
2 Auto Blasters
Fire Arc: Front
Skill: Starship gunnery
Fire Control: 2D
Space Range: 1-8/25/40
Atmosphere Range: 100-800/2.5/4 km
Damage: 3D

Droid Starfighters

A favored weapon of the Confederacy of Independent Sys­
tems during the Clone Wars, the droid starfighter is a marvel of 
engineering   and   artificial   intelligence.   Combining   the   deadly 
technology of a starfighter with the advanced brains of a battle 
droid, droid starfighters provide the Separatists with an endless 
supply of combat-worthy vessels  without   the  need  to recruit 
and train living pilots.

Droid starfighters are small, cheap, and expendable, just the 
way the Trade Federation likes them. Mostly manufactured by 
companies   supporting   the   Confederacy,   droid   starfighters   are 
churned out of factories nearly as quickly as Republic forces can 
destroy them. The only limits on the number of droid starfight­
ers that can appear on the battlefront lie within the command 
and   control   computers   or   a   Droid   Control   Ship.   Though   the 
automated nature of droid starfighters makes them more prone 
to large-scale difficulties (a single computer virus can scramble 
the programming of thousands of droid starfighters at a time), it 
also makes them easier to coordinate and command as a group.

The   most   common   droid   starfighter,   the  Vulture-class 
starfighter, operates in both a flight mode and a walker mode 
and was used as early as the Battle of Naboo. These fighters are 
common throughout the duration of the Clone Wars, but when 
the Separatist fleet was deactivated, many of these starfighters 
were lost or destroyed. Also used during the Clone Wars was the

droid tri-fighter. This craft, while not nearly as popular as the  
Vulture-class   starfighter,   served   throughout   the   Confederate 
fleet and is seen on almost all fronts of the war. 

Droid   starfighters   usually   receive   their   commands   from   a 
Droid Control Ship, which coordinates their attacks for maxi­
mum  efficiency.  Though   the  failure  of a  single  Droid  Control 
Ship can have devastating results on the starfighters under its 
control   (as   seen   at   the   Battle   of   Naboo),   few   squadrons   are 
refitted with independent droid brains due to cost issues. For the 
most   part,   the   Confederacy   combats   this   problem   by   having 
redundant control vessels present at any battle, ensuring that if 
one such ship is destroyed, the droid starfighters will continue 
to operate.

Given the computerized nature of its piloting system, a droid 
starfighter can attack with all weapons as though each had its 
own gunner, despite the fact that the ship has no actual crew. 
This allows the ship to use each of its formidable weapon sys­
tems in a single round, without the need to coordinate multiple 
crewmembers.

Droid starfighters also have the added benefit of not being 
affected   by   the   Force   or   other   effects   to   which   living   pilots 
would be susceptible. They cannot be bargained with; they can­
not be reasoned with; they do not feel pity, remorse, or fear. 
Droid starfighters have all droid immunities, including immunity 
to mind-affecting effects, and will not willfully communicate 
with enemy starships. They cannot be demoralized and will nev­
er contradict their orders; in essence, they are the most disci ­
plined starfighter corps in the galaxy.

Weapons:
4 Laser Cannons (fire-linked)

Fire Arc: Front
Skill: Starship gunnery
Fire Control: 1D
Space Range: 1-5/10/17
Atmosphere Range: 100-500/1/1.7 km
Damage: 4D

2 Medium Concussion Missile Launchers (4 torpedoes each)

Fire Arc: Front
Skill: Starship gunnery
Space Range: 1/3/7
Atmosphere Range: 30-100/300/700
Damage: 7D

 TRI-FIGHTER

Craft: Colla Designs/Phlac-Arphocc Automata Industries Tri-Fighter
Type: Droid starfighter
Scale: Starfighter
Length: 5.4 meters
Skill: Starfighter piloting: Tri-fighter
Crew: None (droid brain)
Crew Skill: Starfighter piloting 4D+1, starship gunnery 4D+1
Cost: 20,000 (new), 8,000 (used)
Maneuverability: 2D+1
Space: 8
Atmosphere: 365; 1,050 kmh
Hull: 2D+2
Sensors:

Passive: 20/0D
Scan: 45/1D
Search: 60/2D+1
Focus: 3/3D

Weapons:
Medium Laser Cannon

Fire Arc: Front
Skill: Starship gunnery
Fire Control: 1D+1
Space Range: 1-5/12/20
Atmosphere Range: 100-500/1.2/2 km
Damage: 5D

 VULTURE-CLASS DROID STARFIGHTER

Craft: Baktoid Armor Worlshop Vulture-class Starfighter
Type: Autonomous starfighter
Scale: Starfighter
Length: 3.5 meters
Skill: Starfighter piloting
Crew: 0 (droid brain)
Crew Skill: Starfighter piloting 4D+1, starship gunnery 4D+1
Cargo Capacity: None
Consumables: None
Cost: 19,000 (new), 5000 (used)
Maneuverability: 3D
Space: 9
Atmosphere: 400; 1,150 kmh
Hull: 2D
Sensors:

Passive: 20/0D
Scan: 40/1D
Search: 60/2D
Focus: 3/3D

3 Light Laser Cannons (fire-linked)

Fire Arc: Front
Skill: Starship gunnery
Fire Control: 2D
Space Range: 1-5/10/17
Atmosphere Range: 100-500/1/1.7 km
Damage: 3D

2 Medium Concussion Missile Launchers (3 torpedoes each)

Fire Arc: Front
Skill: Starship gunnery
Space Range: 1/3/7
Atmosphere Range: 30-100/300/700
Damage: 7D

Eta-2 Actis Interceptor

A light and fast starship designed for use during the Clone 
Wars,   the   Eta-2   Actis   interceptor   is   a   predecessor   to   the   TIE 
fighter and one of the fastest and smallest ships in the Republic 
fleet.  Popularized  by  the  Jedi  during  the  waning days  of the 
Clone Wars (and often referred to colloquially as the “Jedi Inter­
ceptor”), the Eta-2 is a marvel of compact engineering. Featur­
ing  twin   S-foils   designed   to  diffuse   engine   heat  and  a  more 
impressive armament than other contemporary starfighters, the 
Eta-2 is a dangerous, if fragile, starfighter that helped turn the 
tide against the onslaught of the Confederacy’s droid starfighter 
corps.

The Eta-2 Actis interceptor packs a lot of firepower into a 
very small package. Though stripped of any shielding (and pos­
sessing only a very limited amount of hull strength), the Eta-2 is 
designed to take advantage of the incredible reflexes exhibited 
by both Jedi as well as expert pilots. Though the ship is likely to 
be destroyed by a solid hit, the Eta-2 is fast and maneuverable, 
allowing it to avoid attacks altogether rather than be able to 
absorb and deflect incoming damage.

Unlike its predecessor (the Delta-7 Aethersprite fighter) and 
its successor (the TIE fighter), the Eta-2 features a complement 
of ion cannons that allows it to disable foes in combat, adding 
to the versatility of the ship. Though not as heavily armed as 
other fighters active during the Clone Wars, the Eta-2 uses its  
speed and maneuverability to slip past enemy lines and deliver a 
concentrated attack on both starfighters as well as small trans­
ports and frigates.

A limited number of Eta-2 fighters were outfitted with con­
cussion missiles during the Clone Wars. Though such a modifica­
tion was usually made only for special missions, some Jedi and 
other pilots found the increased armament to be a boon when 
fighting against droid enemies (since there was no concern for

taking lives). Such a modification was rare, and usually required 
the removal of the ion cannons to compensate for the concus­
sion missile launcher and its payload (usually only four missiles).

 ETA-2 ACTIS INTERCEPTOR

Craft: Kuat Systems Engineering Eta-2 Actis-class Interceptor
Type: Interceptor
Scale: Starfighter
Length: 5.47 meters
Skill: Starfighter piloting: Eta-2
Crew: 1 and astromech droid (can coordinate)
Crew Skill: All skills typically at 4D
Cargo Capacity: 60 kilograms
Consumables: 2 days (1 week with booster ring)
Cost: 290,000 (new), 140,000 (used)
Hyperdrive Multiplier: x1 (with booster ring, see below)
Nav Computer: Uses an astromech droid programmed with 10 jumps
Maneuverability: 4D
Space: 12
Atmosphere: 450; 1,300 kmh
Hull: 2D+1
Sensors:

Passive: 10/0D
Scan: 15/1D
Search: 20/2D
Focus: 2/2D+1

Weapons:
2 Laser Cannons (fire-linked)

Fire Arc: Front
Skill: Starship gunnery
Fire Control: 3D
Space Range: 1-3/12/25
Atmosphere Range: 100-300/1.2/2.5 km
Damage: 5D

2 Light Ion Cannons (fire-linked) 

Fire Arc: Front 
Skill: Starship gunnery 
Fire Control: 3D 
Space Range: 1-3/10/20 
Atmosphere Range: 100-300/1/2 km 
Damage: 4D 

Notes: The Eta-7 requires a separate hyperdrive module in the form of 
a   booster   ring   (the   TransGalMeg   Industries   hyperdrive   booster 
ring).   Docking   with  the   ring   takes  3  rounds   to accomplish,  and 
requires   a   Difficult  starfighter   piloting  skill   check   (the   fighter’s 
maneuverability counts for this roll). 

Naboo Royal N-1 Starfighter

An example of the beauty and artistry of the Naboo people, 
the N-1 starfighter is the premier space combat vessel for the 
security volunteers of that tranquil world. Designed to be aes­
thetically   appealing   as   well   as   ecologically   friendly,   the   N-1 
starfighter was a moderately armed space combat vessel created 
to   protect   Naboo   and   the   space   around   it   from   pirates   and 
raiders. Despite the pleasing appearance of the N-1, the vessel is 
a   capable   defense   fighter   that   sees   a   surprising   amount   of 
action while protecting the peaceful world of Naboo.

Each N-1 starfighter is embellished with a chromium coating 
on the nose and forward sections of the engines, a sign that it is 
a part of the Naboo Royal House. Primarily used for defensive 
missions, the N-1 fighter also serves as part of the monarchy’s 
honor guard when traveling abroad, escorting the Royal Trans­
port   ships   throughout   the   galaxy.  N-1  starfighters   are  some­
times loaned to VIPs and other important visitors to escort their 
starships while in the Naboo system, though this is a relatively 
rare occurrence. 

Proton Torpedo Magazine (10 torpedoes)

Fire Arc: Front
Skill: Starship gunnery
Fire Control: 2D
Space Range: 1/3/7
Atmosphere Range: 50-100/300/700
Damage: 9D

TIE Fighter

The Empire, wanting to standardize its starfighter fleet with 
smaller ships, selected the TIE to replace a number of disparate 
models that were currently in use. In time, and with continual 
upgrades to the design, the TIE/In became the standard Imperial 
starfighter   craft.   It   is   relatively   inexpensive   to   produce,   and 
though often maligned by both Imperial and Alliance pilots, it is  
nonetheless effective. 

In order to save on production costs, the TIE/In lacks many of 
the   features   that   are   considered   to   be   standard   on   other 
starfighters.   The   relatively   fragile   craft   is   not   equipped   with 
deflector shields, a hyperdrive, or a life support system. In order 
to survive the rigors of space when piloting their fighters, TIE  
pilots must don distinctive, fully sealed flight suits. Without the 
proper supports or docking scaffolds, TIE fighters are also unable 
to land in any sort of conventional manner. 

Although the TIE’s versatility is somewhat limited by these 
deficiencies, it does have several points in its favor. Its agility, 
combined with its small size and speed, makes it a difficult tar­
get for all but the most talented or well-trained gunners. TIE  
fighters, being inexpensive and easy to produce, are deployed in 
large quantities. Imperial starfighter tactics stress that enemies 
must be overwhelmed by sheer force of numbers, and casualty 
rates among TIE pilots are much higher than average.

 TIE FIGHTER

Craft: Sienar Fleet Systems TIE/ln
Type: Space superiority fighter
Scale: Starfighter
Length: 6.3 meters
Skill: Starfighter piloting: TIE
Crew: 1
Crew Skill: Starfighter piloting 4D+1, starship gunnery 4D
Cargo Capacity: 65 kilograms
Consumables: 2 days
Cost: 60,000 (new), 25,000 (used)
Maneuverability: 2D
Space: 10
Atmosphere: 415; 1,200 kmh
Hull: 2D

Unlike   many   other   planetary   defense   fighters,   the   N-1 
starfighter is equipped with powerful weapon systems. Despite 
its outward appearance as a piece of art, the N-1 carries laser 
cannons and proton torpedoes that rival those used by strictly 
military vessels. The mere presence of proton torpedoes puts the 
vessel in a higher class of combat starships, allowing it to drive 
off raiders that have competitive weaponry. Though N-1 pilots 
are not always the most experienced, the weapons aboard the 
ship can usually make up for the discrepancy.

The N-1’s offensive capabilities seem out of place for a world 
where war and violence are eschewed. However, the N-1 is used 
as a vehicle of deterrence, responding to attacks by pirates and 
raiders   with   enough   force  to  encourage   enemies   to  seek  out 
other   star   systems   to   prey   upon.   Additionally,   the   N-1 
starfighter’s   shields   and   other   defense   systems   are   robust 
enough that even persistent attackers will suffer heavy casual­
ties in the time it takes to penetrate Naboo’s defenses.

 N-1 ROYAL STARFIGHTER

Craft: Theed Palace Space Vessel Engineering N-1 Royal Starfighter
Type: Space superiority starfighter
Scale: Starfighter
Length: 11 meters
Skill: Starfighter piloting: N-1
Crew: 1 (plus astromech droid)
Crew Skill: Starfighter piloting 4D+1, starship gunnery 4D+1, starship  

shields 4D+1

Cargo Capacity: 65 kilograms
Consumables: 1 week
Cost: Not available for sale
Hyperdrive Multiplier: x1
Nav Computer: Uses Astromech with 10 jumps
Maneuverability: 2D
Space: 8
Atmosphere: 365; 1,050 kmh
Hull: 2D
Shields: 1D
Sensors:

Passive: 20/0D
Scan: 35/1D
Search: 40/2D
Focus: 2/3D

Weapons:
2 Laser Cannons (fire-linked)

Fire Arc: Front
Skill: Starship gunnery
Fire Control: 2D
Space Range: 1-3/12/25
Atmosphere Range: 100-300/1.2/2.5 km
Damage: 5D

Sensors:

Passive: 20/0D
Scan: 40/1D
Search: 60/2D
Focus: 3/3D

Weapons:
2 Laser Cannons (fire linked)

Fire Arc: Front
Skill: Starship gunnery
Fire Control: 2D
Space Range: 1-3/12/25
Atmosphere Range: 100-300/1.2/2.5 km
Damage: 5D

TIE Bomber

Designated the TIE/sa, the TIE bomber is one of the few TIE 
craft that does not incorporate its sister craft’s distinctive hull 
shape. Instead, it employs a distinctive double hull design, with 
two cylindrical pods mounted side by side between  two bent 
solar  array panels.  The starboard pod  houses   the  cockpit and 
flight controls, while the portside pod stores the bomber’s pay­
load. Rebel pilots commonly referred to TIE bombers as “dupes.”

During the Battle of Hoth, these formidable bombers were 
tasked with destroying Rebel transports but were largely foiled 
by Alliance X-wings. Following the Rebel evacuation of the icy 
planet, a squadron of TIE bombers razed what little remained of 
Echo Base before joining in the search for the Millennium Fal­
con amid Hoth’s asteroid belt. Several squadrons were also used 
against Alliance capital ships during the Battle of Endor. 

TIE bombers form the backbone of the Imperial Navy’s strike 
capability. They are commonly deployed against enemy capital 
ships,   space   stations,   and   ground   targets.   They   are   able   to 
employ heavy weapons, delivering payloads with uncanny preci­
sion. TIE bombers are most often equipped with a rack of sixteen 
medium concussion missiles. Two forward-mounted laser can­
nons, used primarily for strafing runs and self-defense, are also 
standard armament.

Several other payload configurations are used, depending on 
specific mission parameters. Instead of missiles, as many as eight 
proton torpedoes can be loaded into the ship’s ordnance pod. By 
decreasing the missile or torpedo payload by half, up to eight  
proton bombs or six orbital mines can also be deployed. When 
providing ground 
support, a TIE 
bomber is capable 
of carrying as 
many as 64 thermal 
detonators that 
are used to carpet-
bomb enemy infantry 

formations.   Non-conventional   payloads   include   leaflets   filled 
with demoralizing Imperial propaganda, as well as supply canis­
ters for isolated Imperial infantry units.

 TIE BOMBER

Craft: Sienar Fleet Systems TIE Bomber
Type: Dedicated light space bomber
Scale: Starfighter
Length: 7.8 meters
Skill: Starfighter piloting: TIE
Crew: 1
Crew  Skill:  Missile  weapons  4D+1, starfighter  piloting  4D,  starship  

gunnery 5D

Cargo Capacity: 15 metric tons (bomb bay)
Consumables: 2 days
Cost: 150,000 (new), 75,000 (used)
Space: 6
Atmosphere: 295; 850 kmh
Hull: 4D+1
Sensors:

Passive: 20/0D
Scan: 35/1D
Search: 50/2D
Focus: 3/2D+2

Weapons:
2 Laser Cannons (fire linked)

Fire Arc: Front
Skill: Starship gunnery
Fire Control: 2D
Space Range: 1-3/12/25
Atmosphere Range: 100-300/1.2/2.5 km
Damage: 3D

Concussion Missiles Launcher (16 carried)

Fire Arc: Front
Skill: Missile weapons: concussion missiles
Fire Control: 3D+2
Space Range: 1/3/7
Atmosphere Range: 50-100/1/5 km
Damage: 9D

TIE  Interceptor

After   the   Battle   of   Yavin,   Imperial   Naval   commanders 
demanded a starfighter that could counter the speed and fire­
power   of   the   X-wing   fighters   that   the   Rebel   Alliance   had 
employed. The TIE interceptor, which incorporated several of the 
TIE advanced prototype’s features, was the ultimate result. Pro­
totypes similar to the initial interceptor design had undergone 
testing prior to the Battle of Yavin, but these had seen little 
action outside Sienar’s test yards.

It was only a short time later that the final TIE interceptor  
design was integrated into existing starfighter squadrons. The 
Imperial  Navy’s  eventual  plan   was  to  replace  all  standard  TIE 
fighters with TIE interceptors. This lofty goal was never quite 
met, with interceptors representing only twenty percent of all 
TIE fighters by the time the Battle of Endor took place. As the 
number   of   interceptors   in   the   Imperial   Navy   increased,   it 
became standard procedure to include at least one squadron of 
TIE/In starfighters aboard each Star Destroyer. 

The TIE interceptor is a consummate dogfighter, possessed of 
increased   speed   and   maneuverability   when   compared   to   the 
standard TIE fighter. Not only is the interceptor faster and more 
agile than the TIE fighter it also incorporates four fire-linked 
laser cannons mounted on the tips of its bent, dagger-shaped 
solar arrays. The solar arrays themselves featured a horizontal 
notch  that improves  pilot  visibility to both  sides. Although it 
lacks   shields,   armor,   and   life   support,   the  TIE   interceptor   has 

Following   the   acquisition   of   the   X-wing’s   schematics,   the 
Alliance began to produce and test small numbers of the new 
starfighter. Most of the initial trials were done under combat 
conditions. With its efficacy proven beyond a doubt, Rebel fac­
tories   ramped   up   production   of   the   T-65B.   The   craft   soon 
became a favorite of Rebel fighter pilots, and it has been a sta­
ple of Rebel strategy ever since.

The T-65B is an excellent all-around starfighter, capable of 
filling a number of roles with little or no modification. Not only 
is it maneuverable and easy to fly, it is equipped with modest 
shields, heavy weaponry, and an integrated hyperdrive. It is also 
a   durable   craft,   capable   of   sustaining   heavy   damage   while 
remaining operational. Were it not for this inherent sturdiness 
of  design, the Rebel  Alliance could never hope to match the 
sheer number of Imperial fighters that are thrown against it.

Each X-wing is equipped with a socket that is capable of car­
rying an  astromech  droid.  The astromech  droid  is   an  integral 
component  of  the  X-wing,  and only  adds  to  the  starfighter’s 
versatility.   Not   only   can   the   diminutive   droid   see   to   minor 
repairs, it also uses its systems to help compute and store hyper­
space coordinates.

 X-WING

Craft: Incom T-65B X-Wing
Type: Space superiority fighter
Scale: Starfighter
Length: 12.5 meters
Skill: Starfighter piloting: X-wing
Crew: 1 and astromech droid (can coordinate)
Crew  Skill:  Starfighter piloting 5D, starship gunnery 4D+2, starship  

shields 3D

Cargo Capacity: 110 kilograms
Consumables: 1 week
Cost: 150,000 (new), 65,000 (used)
Hyperdrive Multiplier: x1
Nav Computer: No (astromech droid programmed with 10 jumps)
Maneuverability: 3D
Space: 8
Atmosphere: 365; 1,050 kmh
Hull: 4D
Shields: 1D
Sensors:

proven to be more than a match for the X-wing fighter. Inter­
ceptor tactics are nearly identical to those utilized by standard 
TIE fighters.

 TIE INTERCEPTOR

Craft: Sienar Fleet Systems TIE Interceptor
Type: Space superiority starfighter
Scale: Starfighter
Length: 6.6 meters
Skill: Starfighter piloting: TIE
Crew: 1
Crew Skill: Starfighter piloting 5D, starship gunnery 4D+2
Cargo Capacity: 75 kilograms
Consumables: 2 days
Cost: 120,000 (new), 75,000 (used)
Maneuverability: 3D+2
Space: 11
Atmosphere: 435; 1,250 kmh
Hull: 3D
Sensors:

Passive: 25/1D
Scan: 40/2D
Search: 60/2D
Focus: 4/3D+2

Weapons:
4 Laser Cannons (fire linked)

Fire Arc: Front
Skill: Starship gunnery
Fire Control: 3D
Space Range: 1-3/12/25
Atmosphere Range: 100-300/1.2/2.5 km
Damage: 6D

X-Wing

The   X-wing   was   designed   following   the   formation   of   the 
Empire. Incom Corporation, suspected by the Empire of harbor­
ing Rebel sympathizers, was forced to halt production of non-
Navy combat craft during an Imperial Security Bureau investiga­
tion into allegations of treason within the company. Members of 
the X-wing  design team  were placed  under  arrest  while  they 
were interrogated by Imperial agents. As the Imperial investiga­
tion   intensified,   a   group   of   Rebel   commandos   infiltrated   the 
facility and rescued the X-wing’s senior design team, taking all 
T-65 plans and prototypes with them.

Passive: 25/0D
Scan: 50/1D
Search: 75/2D
Focus: 3/4D

Weapons:
4 Laser Cannons (fire linked)

Fire Arc: Front
Skill: Starship gunnery
Fire Control: 3D
Space Range: 1-3/12/25
Atmosphere Range: 100-300/1.2/2.5 km
Damage: 6D

Space Range: 1-3/12/25
Atmosphere Range: 100-300/1.2/2.5 km
Damage: 5D

2 Proton Torpedo Launchers (4 torpedoes each)

Fire Arc: Front
Skill: Starship gunnery
Fire Control: 2D
Space Range: 1/3/7
Atmosphere Range: 50-100/300/700 m
Damage: 9D

2 Light Ion Cannons (fire linked)

Fire Arc: Turret (may be fixed to forward to be fired by pilot at only 
1D fire control)
Crew: 1
Skill: Starship gunnery
Fire Control: 3D
Space Range: 1/3/7
Atmosphere Range: 100-300/700/3.6 km
Damage: 4D

Y-Wing-A4

The BTL-A4 was a one-man version of the S3, which removed 

the gunner position and locked down the overhead ion cannon.

It   was   used   commonly   by   pirate,   mercenary,   and   private 
defense forces, and therefore was also used by the early Rebel 
Alliance as the primary starfighter for bombing and disabling 
roles. As the BTL-S3 became the primary Y-wing variant of the 
Rebel forces, the A4 was still kept in many units as a supple­
mentary craft. However, Red and Gold Squadrons favored the A4 
variant of the Y-wing and used it with distinction in several cli­
mactic battles, such as the Battle of Yavin, the capture of the 
Death Star II plans from the Imperial freighter Suprosa, and the 
subsequent Battle of Endor.

 Y-WING-A4

Craft: Koensayr BTL-A4
Type: Attack starfighter
Scale: Starfighter
Length: 16 meters
Skill: Starfighter piloting: Y-wing
Crew: 1, 1 Astromech droid (can coordinate)
Crew Skill:  Astrogation 3D+2, sensors 4D, starfighter piloting 4D+1,  

starship gunnery 4D+1, starship shields 3D

Cargo Capacity: 110 kilograms
Consumables: 1 week
Cost: 145,000 (new), 70,500 (used)
Hyperdrive Multiplier: x1
Nav   Computer:  No   (uses   astromech   droid   programmed   with   10 

jumps)

2 Proton Torpedo Launchers (3 torpedoes each)

Fire Arc: Front
Skill: Starship gunnery
Fire Control: 2D
Space Range: 1/3/7
Atmosphere Range: 30-100/300/700
Damage: 9D

Y-Wing-S3

Built by Koensayr Manufacturing, the Y-wing was designed 
to be used in the Clone Wars, but wasn’t in production until 
after that conflict ended. Having already spent the money to 
retool shipyards to produce the ships, and unable to interest the 
Empire in the design, Koensayr began selling the ships to anyone 
who had credits to spare. Officially all such purchases were to 
legitimate   planetary   or   business   concerns,   but   Koensayr   was 
happy to look the other way if a Hutt or a Rebel managed to 
produce even halfway realistic documents supporting a sale.

As a result, the Y-wing fighter, lovingly called the “wishbone” 
by Rebel Alliance pilots, was the workhorse and backbone of the 
early Rebellion. As the X-wing became increasingly available to 
the   Rebellion,   Y-wings   became   second-line   starfighters   used 
only because so many were available. Plans to decommission all 
Y-wings are periodically drawn up, but some of the ships contin­
ue to serve through the Yuuzhan Vong invasion and the con­
flicts that follow it. 

Although not as swift as an X-wing or as powerful as a B-
wing, the Y-wing was a sturdy, well-shielded craft with a power­
ful attack in the form of two ion cannons and proton torpedo 
tubes. Ungainly for a snubfighter, the Y-wing served as a joint 
fighter/bomber, able to both enter dogfights with TIE fighters 
and   take   out   armored   targets,   such   as   enemy   freighters   and 
planetary bunkers. Few ships its size mounted ion cannons. and 
the success of the Y-wing is one reason that the B-wing was 
similarly armed. 

 Y-WING-S3

Craft: Koensayr BTL-S3 Y-wing
Type: Attack starfighter
Scale: Starfighter
Length: 16 meters
Skill: Starfighter piloting: Y-wing
Crew: 2; 1 pilot; 1 gunner, 1 astromech droid (can coordinate)
Crew Skill: Astrogation 3D+2, starfighter piloting 4D+2, starship gun­

nery 4D+1, starship shields 3D

Cargo Capacity: 110 kilograms
Consumables: 1 week
Cost: 135,000 (new), 60,000 (used)
Hyperdrive Multiplier: x1
Nav   Computer:  No   (uses   astromech   droid   programmed   with   10 

jumps)

Maneuverability: 2D
Space: 7
Atmosphere: 350; 1,000 kmh
Hull: 4D
Shields: 1D+2
Sensors:

Passive: 20/0D
Scan: 35/1D
Search: 40/2D
Focus: 2/3D

Weapons:
2 Laser Cannons (fire linked)

Fire Arc: Front
Skill: Starship gunnery
Fire Control: 2D

Maneuverability: 2D
Space: 7
Atmosphere: 350; 1,000 kmh
Hull: 4D
Shields: 1D+2
Sensors:

Passive: 20/0D
Scan: 35/1D
Search: 40/2D
Focus: 2/3D

Weapons:
2 Laser Cannons (fire linked)

Fire Arc: Front
Skill: Starship gunnery
Fire Control: 2D
Space Range: 1-3/12/25
Atmosphere Range: 100-300/1.2/2.5 km
Damage: 5D

2 Proton Torpedo Launchers (4 torpedoes each)

Fire Arc: Front
Skill: Starship gunnery
Fire Control: 2D
Space Range: 1/3/7
Atmosphere Range: 50-100/300/700 m
Damage: 9D

2 Light Ion Cannons (fire linked)

Fire Arc: Front 
Skill: Starship gunnery
Fire Control: 1D
Space Range: 1/3/7
Atmosphere Range: 100-300/700/3.6 km
Damage: 4D

Z-95 Headhunter

The Z-95 Headhunter is a venerable starfighter design that 
still sees use throughout the galaxy. Even though it is no longer  
produced,   either   by   Incom   Industries   or   Subpro   Corporation, 
unlicensed   copies   and   variants   can   be   found   throughout   the 
Outer Rim territories. Without taking into account the number 
of knock-offs in circulation, there are still more Headhunters in 
service   with   planetary   fleets,   customs   personnel,   paramilitary 
organizations,   and   law   enforcement   agencies   than   any   other 
starfighter.

The   original   Headhunters   were   more   akin   to   atmospheric 
fighters than starships. After several generations of continued 
development, the Z-95 was close to the form and function that 
it would become famous for. The T-65 X-wing owes much of its 
success to the Z-95, and the two craft are obvious cousins when 
placed side by side. It should come as little surprise that many of 
the galaxy’s heroes have flown the Headhunter on more than 
one occasion. 

For its time, the Z-95 Headhunter was a state-of-the-art 

starfighter that made an indelible mark on 
the galaxy. Space combat tactics of the time 
were designed with the Z-95 in mind, and 
many modern maneu­
vers are based on 
those originally 
flown in the Head­
hunter by the starfight­
er aces of yesteryear. 

The   stock   Z-95   is   not   equipped 

with hyperdrive engines, but it wasn’t long before Alliance tech­
nicians created a number of variant Headhunters that could tra­
verse hyperspace. Prior to implementing hyperdrives, the Rebel 
Alliance was reluctant to assign the craft to its fleet, instead 

keeping a handful of Headhunters for short-range defense in 
remote sectors. Though still a relative rarity in the Alliance fleet, 
they are ubiquitous enough to be utilized for sensitive opera­
tions in areas where their discovery will not immediately reveal 
the Alliance’s presence the same way that an A-wing or X-wing 
would.

Another point in favor of the Z-95 is its durability and ease 
of repair. It is a rugged craft that can take a beating and keep 
flying. Use of the craft is so widespread. and so many have been 
manufactured over the years, that it is a simple matter to find 
spare parts, even on most backwater worlds.

 Z-95 HEADHUNTER

Craft: Incom/Subpro Z-95 I3 (Improved Model 3) Headhunter
Type: Multi-purpose starfighter
Scale: Starfighter
Length: 11.8 meters
Skill: Starfighter piloting: Z-95
Crew: 1
Crew Skill: Starfighter piloting 3D+2, starship gunnery 3D+2, starship  

shields 3D+1

Cargo Capacity: 85 kilograms
Consumables: 1 day
Cost: 80,000 (new), 45,000 (used)
Maneuverability: 1D
Space: 7
Atmosphere: 400; 1,150 kmh
Hull: 4D
Shields: 1D
Sensors:

Passive: 15/0D
Scan: 25/1D
Search: 40/2D
Focus: 1/2D

Weapons:
2 Triple Blasters (fire linked)

Fire Arc: Front
Skill: Starship gunnery
Fire Control: 1D
Space Range: 1-5/10/17
Atmosphere Range: 100-500/1/1.7 km
Damage: 3D

2 Concussion Missile Launchers (6 missiles each)

Fire Arc: Front
Skill: Starship gunnery
Fire Control: 1D
Space Range: 1/3/7
Atmosphere Range: 30-100/300/700
Damage: 7D

CAPITAL SHIPS

Capital combat starships (often referred to simply as ”capital 
ships”) are huge vessels built for deep-space warfare. With crews 
numbering in the thousands, these vessels sport scores of heavy 
weapons and often carry several squadrons of starfighters. These 
ships can operate for months or years without having to stop 
for resupply, and are designed to take an unbelievable amount 
of   punishment   before   losing   any   fighting   capacity.   These 
tremendously   expensive   starships   are   at   the   core   of   most 
starfleets, and can be in service for decades. Some of the most 
famous capital ships include Imperial Star Destroyers, Corellian 
Corvettes,   Mon   Cal   Star   Cruisers   and   Imperial   Dreadnaughts. 
These ships use the capital ship piloting skill.

Acclamator-class Assault Ship

The   Acclamator-class   assault   ship,   produced   by   Rothana 
Heavy Engineering for Kamino’s cloners, quickly became a staple 
of   the   Old   Republic’s   clone   legions.   Produced   on   a   scale   to 
match   that   of   the   clone   troopers   it   was   designed   to   carry, 
dozens of the ships were crewed and ready to depart when Jedi 
Master Yoda arrived to mobilize an invasion force. Though for­
midable in appearance, the ships had never been tested in bat­
tle. Given the Acclamator’s role as the primary delivery system 
for ground forces, the entire conflict hinged on its ability to sur­
vive under combat conditions.

The Acclamator saw its baptism of fire during the invasion of 
Geonosis.   A   small   number   of   the   assault   ships   were   lost   to 
ground fire following the deployment of troops to the planet 
surface, but the casualties were deemed acceptable. Those that 
remained pulled back to provide orbital fire support. By the end 
of the first day, the Separatist forces were scattered and in com­
plete retreat. The Acclamator had proved its worth and stood as 
a chilling omen of the Star Destroyers that would eventually 
take its place.

Following the Clone Wars, the Acclamator was replaced in 
service by newer, larger, and more powerful ships, such as the 
Victory-   and   Imperial-class   Star   Destroyers.   The   Acclamators 
that remained in Imperial service were relegated to duty in rear-
echelon areas. Scattered reports reveal that Acclamators were 
used as transports for prisoners and slaves following the begin­
ning of the rebellion against the Empire, but these rumors are 
difficult to confirm. Many of the venerable assault ships were 
eventually   decommissioned   and   stripped,   their   hulls   broken 
down and recycled by Kuat Drive Yards in order to produce new­
er and more terrifying weapons. 

The Acclamator is designed as a legion-level troop transport. 
Using exceptionally efficient hyperdrive engines, an assault ship 
is capable of traversing the vastness of space in a short amount 
of time. In addition to 16,000 clone troopers, a typical Acclama­
tor carries 48 AT-TE walkers. 80 LAAT gunships, 36 self-propelled 
heavy   artillery   units,   and   320   speeder   bikes.   Once   a   force   is 
deployed, the assault ship has the capacity to function as an 
orbital command center.

In   dire   situations,   several   Acclamators   could  join   forces   to 
perform an orbital bombardment designed to eradicate all fac­
tors  of production  (including  all sentients).  Code-named  Base 
Delta   Zero   by   Old   Republic,   Confederacy,   and  (later)   Imperial 
forces, such a technique was sparingly used against systems that 
were too rebellious to be conquered.

If the Acclamator has one weakness, it is its overspecializa­
tion as a ground attack platform. Though it can certainly defend 
itself from small spaceborne threats, it doesn’t have the staying 
power or flexibility to stand against a concerted attack by capi­
tal  ships. It  is for this  reason, more than any other, that  the 
Acclamator design was eventually abandoned by the Empire in 
favor of larger, less specialized vessels. 

 ACCLAMATOR ASSAULT SHIP

Craft:  Rothana Heavy Engineering Acclamator-class Military Assault 

Ship

Type: Assault ship
Scale: Capital
Length: 752 meters
Skill: Capital ship piloting: Acclamator-class
Crew: 20,141
Crew Skill: All skills typically at 4D
Passengers: 16,000 (troops)
Cargo Capacity: 11,250 metric tons
Consumables: 2 years
Cost: 29 million (new), 19 million (used)
Hyperdrive Multiplier: x.75
Hyperdrive Backup: x10
Nav Computer: Yes
Maneuverability: 2D
Space: 6
Atmosphere: 330; 950 kmh
Hull: 4D+1
Shields: 2D+1
Sensors:

Passive: 40/1D
Scan: 70/2D
Search: 150/3D
Focus: 4/3D+2

Weapons:
12 Turbo Quadlasers

Fire Arc: Partial Turret (6 front/left, 6 front/right)
Skill: Capital ship gunnery
Fire Control: 1D+1
Space Range: 3-15/35/75
Atmosphere Range: 6-30/70/15 0km
Damage: 5D

4 Proton Torpedo Tubes (100 torpedoes)

Fire Arc: Front
Skill: Capital ship gunnery
Fire Control: +2
Space Range: 2-12/30/60
Atmosphere Range: 4-24/60/120 km
Damage: 9D

24 Point Laser Cannons

Fire Arc: 2 batteries front, 2 batteries left, 2 batteries 

right
Scale: Starfighter
Skill: Starship gunnery
Fire Control: 1D
Space Range: 1-3/12/25
Atmosphere Range: 100-

300/1.2/2.5 km

Damage: 4D+1

Ground/Air Complement: 320 speeder 

bikes, 48 AT-TE walkers, 80 LAAT gun­
ships, 36 self-propelled heavy artillery units.

Banking Clan Frigate

The InterGalactic Banking Clan learned early in its existence 
that security meant profit. As a result of that philosophy, the  
clan decided it needed its own communications network sepa­
rate from the HoloNet, and military ships to protect its commu­
nications and other investments. The result was the Munificent-
class star frigate, a ship so closely associated with the business 
that custom-ordered its design that it is almost always referred 
to as the Banking Clan Frigate.

When San Hill brought the Banking Clan into the Separatists’ 
fold, he brought the frigates with him. After the defeat of the 
Confederacy, most  of the  remaining  frigates  were  scuttled.  A 
few escaped with their crews, becoming pirates or (eventually) 
members of the Rebellion. In many cases, the ships were exten­
sively  rebuilt by   Rebels,  radically  changing  the  ships’   appear­
ance. 

Banking Clan Frigates serve as communication ships, troop 
transports,   and   front-line   ships.   In   an   ideal   situation,   a   star 
frigate could focus on protecting larger capital ships and elimi­
nating   smaller,   more   weakly   armed   ships.   Its   prow-mounted 
heavy turbolasers could punch through the shielding and armor 
of smaller capital ships, allowing the Munificent-class ship to 
take on military-grade targets. In practice, however, the Banking 
Clan vessels often had to contend with Star Destroyers — con ­
flicts that rarely went well for the frigates.

 BANKING CLAN FRIGATE

Weapons:
2   Heavy   Turbolaser   Cannons 

(fire-linked)
Fire Arc: Front
Crew: 35
Skill: Capital ship gunnery
Fire Control: 2D
Space Range: 3-15/35/75
Damage: 8D

2 Heavy Ion Cannons (fire-linked)

Fire Arc: Front
Crew: 20
Skill: Capital ship gunnery
Fire Control: 3D
Space Range: 3-15/35/75
Damage: 6D

26 Twin Turbolaser Cannons

Fire Arc: 5 batteries left, 5 batteries right, 3 batteries rear
Crew: 2
Skill: Capital ship gunnery
Fire Control: 4D
Space Range: 3-15/35/75
Damage: 3D

Craft:  Hoersch-Kessel   Drive/Gwori   Revolutionary   Industries   Munifi­

20 Light Turbolasers

cent-class Star Frigate

Type: Frigate
Scale: Capital
Length: 825 meters
Skill: Capital ship piloting: Banking Clan frigate
Crew: 200, gunners: 114, skeleton: 75/+15
Passengers:  150,000 (deactivated battle droids, no more than 2,000 

can be activated on-board at once)

Cargo Capacity: 40,000 metric tons
Consumables: 2 years
Cost: Not available for sale (valued at 57 millions)
Hyperdrive Multiplier: x1
Hyperdrive Backup: x10
Nav Computer: Yes
Maneuverability: 2D
Space: 6
Hull: 3D+2
Shields: 2D+1
Sensors:

Passive: 40/1D
Scan: 70/2D
Search: 100/3D
Focus: 4/3D+2

Fire Arc:  2 batteries front/left, 2 batteries front/right (partial tur­
rets)
Crew: 1
Skill: Capital ship gunnery
Fire Control: 4D
Space Range: 3-15/35/75
Damage: 2D

38 Point-Defense Laser Cannons

Fire Arc: 4 batteries front, 5 batteries left, 5 batteries right, 5 bat­
teries rear
Crew: 1
Scale: Starfighter
Skill: Starship gunnery
Fire Control: 4D
Space Range: 1-3/10/20
Damage: 3D

Hyperwave Jammer

Fire Arc: All
Crew: 10
Skill: Communications
Space Range: 3-15/35/75
Damage: The powerful communications arrays can also be used to 
jam enemy craft in nearby space, causing a penalty on sensors and

 

communications rolls (−2D for starfighters, −1D+1 for space trans­
ports, −2 for capital ships). The same penalty is applied to the fire  
control of any weapon fired at the frigate (although fire control 
can’t be reduced to less than 0D). The jammer is selective enough 
not to affect friendly ships, but it isn’t powerful enough to affect 
space stations.

Starfighter Complement: 12 landing craft/shuttles

Corellian Corvette

One of the most common and popular vessels produced by 
the Corellian Engineering Corporation, the CR90 Corvette serves 
multiple purposes in fleets of all types throughout the galaxy. A 
smaller capital ship that is just a step up from a space transport, 
the   Corellian   Corvette   is   large   enough   to   carry   a   significant 
complement of passengers or troops while requiring a relatively 
small   crew   to   operate.   Durable   vessels   that   complement   any 
battle   group   (and,   indeed,   they   are   often   seen   in   Rebel   and 
pirate fleets), many Corellian Corvettes are owned by individuals 
and private organizations. Often referred to as blockade runners, 
these ships boast a distinctive “hammerhead” design that is rec­
ognizable almost anywhere in the galaxy. 

Though   excellent   as   consulars   or   transport   ships,   Corellian 
Corvettes also see extensive use as military and pirate vessels. 
Most Corellian  Corvettes  are  easily  modified  (a  common   trait 
among many of the ships produced by the Corellian Engineering 
Corporation),   and   as   such   they   can   be   tailored   to   a   specific 
owner’s needs. The ease with which CR90 Corvettes are modified 
makes   adding   weaponry,   shielding,   and   even   secondary   hull 
plating a simple matter, meaning that aftermarket modifications 
that boost the ship’s offensive capability are among the most 
common upgrades made to the vessel. Pirates, gunrunners, ship­
jackers, and smugglers favor the CR90 Corvette because even a 
heavily modified ship can appear innocuous at first glance, mak­
ing it easy to launch surprise attacks on unsuspecting targets (or 
sneak past the watchful eyes of the authorities).

Corellian Corvettes often  see use in small-scale naval skir­
mishes,   such   as   breaking   planetary   blockades.   In   fact,   many 
planetary defense fleets use Corellian Corvettes to breach enemy 
lines and set up flanking maneuvers. Since the ship’s configura­
tion can be changed to suit a variety of roles (including naval 
combat, escort, troop carrier, and cargo hauler), these ships are 
often considered dynamic assets, allowing their owners to get 
greater use out of the ship when compared to more static ves­
sels. As such, they are highly valued in both military and civilian 
roles (and can often shift between the two over the course of a 
single ship’s lifetime).

 CORELLIAN CORVETTE

Craft: Corellian Engineering Corporation CR90 Corvette
Type: Mid-sized multi-purpose vessel
Scale: Capital
Length: 150 meters
Skill: Capital ship piloting: Corellian Corvette
Crew: 30 to 165, depending upon configuration
Crew Skill:  Astrogation 3D, capital ship gunnery 4D+1, capital ship  

piloting 3D+2, capital ship shields 3D, sensors 3D+1
Passengers: Up to 600, depending upon configuration
Cargo Capacity: 3,000 metric tons
Consumables: 1 year
Cost: 3.5 million (new), 1.5 million (used)
Hyperdrive Multiplier: x2
Nav Computer: Yes
Maneuverability: 2D
Space: 6
Atmosphere: 330; 950 kmh
Hull: 4D
Shields: 2D
Sensors:

Passive: 40/1D
Scan: 80/2D
Search: 100/3D
Focus: 5/4D

Weapons:
6 Double Turbolaser Cannons

Fire Arc: 3 front, 1 left, 1 right, 1 back
Crew: 1 (3), 3 (3)
Skill: Capital ship gunnery
Fire Control: 3D
Space Range: 3-15/35/75
Atmosphere Range: 6-30/70/150 km
Damage: 4D+2

Imperial Star Destroyer

Few starships inspire terror the way an Imperial Star Destroy­
er can. A symbol of the Empire’s might and an instrument of its 
tyranny, the Imperial Star Destroyer is a dagger-shaped vessel of 
pure   destruction.   Armed   with   powerful   weapons   and   nearly 
impregnable defenses, the Imperial Star Destroyer is a one-ship 
command platform that can be used to fill a variety of roles. 
Star Destroyers act as assault warships. planetary defenders, and 
even escort vessels for extremely important ships. An Imperial 
Star   Destroyer   carries   enough   troops   and   assault   vehicles   to 
stage an invasion on a lightly defended planet, and acts as a 
mobile fortress from which the Empire can engage in entire mil­
itary campaigns. 

During   the   height   of   the   Empire,   Star   Destroyers   were 
deployed in every sector, and some planets even have their own 
Star Destroyers assigned to them. The Imperial fortress worlds of 
the Deep Core often had multiple Star Destroyers assigned to 
the planet. and important planets such as Coruscant might have 
as many as a dozen Star Destroyers, if not more. in orbit at any 
given time. Unlike the Old Republic, the Empire built enough 
ships to extend its reach all the way to the Outer Rim, and mul­
tiple Star Destroyers patrolled the space lanes on a regular basis. 
Star Destroyers are among the few vessels used for orbital 
bombardment,  a favorite  tactic of  the ruthless  Empire. 
Entire planets have been frightened into submission 
by the mere presence of an Imperial Star Destroyer 
in   orbit.   Imperial   Star   Destroyers   are   capable   of 
delivering precise orbital strikes — destroying only 
a small section of a planet — as well as delivering 
bombardments that wipe out all life and industry on 
a world (a tactic known as Base Delta Zero). Only those 

60 Ion Cannons

Fire Arc: 20 front, 15 left, 15 right, 10 back
Crew: 1 (15), 2 (45)
Skill: Capital ship gunnery
Fire Control: 2D+2
Space Range: 1-10/25/50
Atmosphere Range: 2-20/50/100 km
Damage: 3D

10 Tractor Beam Projectors

Fire Arc: 6 front, 2 left, 2 right
Crew: 1 (2), 4 (2), 10 (6)
Skill: Capital ship gunnery
Fire Control: 4D
Space Range: 1-5/15/30
Atmosphere Range: 2-10/30/60 km
Damage: 6D

Starfighter Complement: 72 TIE starfighters (any variant), 8 Lambda-

class shuttles.

Ground/Air Complement:  20 AT-ATs and 30 AT-STs, various support 

vehicles.

Interdictor Cruiser

The Immobilizer 418 Interdictor-class heavy cruiser is a capi­
tal starship used to pull ships out of hyperspace and prevent 
them from reentering, trapping them in realspace and keeping 
them   from   escaping.   The   Immobilizer   418   uses   four   massive 
gravity well generators that produce a gravity shadow in hyper­
space (similar to that projected by a planet or a star) that makes 
hyperspace travel through that area impossible. When an Immo­
bilizer 418 has its gravity well projectors fired up, any ships trav­
eling through hyperspace in the vicinity immediately revert to 
realspace,  and no ship within  a  hyper-space interdiction  area 
can make the jump to lightspeed until the gravity well genera­
tors are shut down.

planets that have powerful shields can withstand the turbolasers 
of an Imperial Star Destroyer. and some worlds (including Caa­
mas) have been devastated by such tactics.

An   Imperial   Star   Destroyer   bristles   with   weapons,   and   for 
good reason. With twenty turbolaser batteries, a Star Destroyer 
can  pound  on   other capital   ships, reducing their shields   in   a 
matter of minutes. Likewise, its ion cannons can quickly disable 
ships, allowing the Empire to tear the ship apart and take the 
prisoners alive. Another ten tractor beam generators ensure that 
few ships will escape its grasp, especially smaller capital ships. 
Though less effective against starfighters, a Star Destroyer is not 
to   be   trifled   with.   Even   the   best   starfighter   corps   fears   the 
armament of an Imperial Star Destroyer, since a lucky shot from 
a turbolaser will turn even the most nimble starfighter into a 
smoldering cloud of debris in an instant.

 IMPERIAL STAR DESTROYER

Craft: Kuat Drive Yards’ Imperial I Star Destroyer
Type: Star Destroyer
Scale: Capital
Length: 1,600 meters
Skill: Capital ship piloting: Star Destroyer
Crew: 36,810, gunners: 275, skeleton: 5,000/+20
Crew Skill:  Astrogation 4D, capital ship gunnery 4D+2, capital ship  

piloting 5D+1, capital ship shields 4D+1, sensors 4D

Passengers: 9,700(troops)
Cargo Capacity: 36,000 metric tons
Consumables: 6 years
Hyperdrive Multiplier: x2
Hyperdrive Backup: x8
Nav Computer: Yes
Maneuverability: 1D
Space: 6
Hull: 7D
Shields: 3D
Sensors:

Passive: 50/1D
Scan: 100/3D
Search: 200/4D
Focus: 6/4D+2

Weapons:
60 Turbolaser Batteries

Fire Arc: 20 front, 20 left, 20 right
Crew: 1 (20), 2 (40)
Skill: Capital ship gunnery
Fire Control: 4D
Space Range: 3-15/35/75
Atmosphere Range: 6-30/70/150 km
Damage: 5D

The Immobilizer 418 was developed in response to the hit-
and-run tactics of the Rebel Alliance. The success of the Immo­
bilizer 418 once again gave the Empire an advantage over Rebel 
tacticians, though fortunately for the Alliance, only a relatively 
small number of Interdictor-class heavy cruisers were converted 
for use during the Galactic Civil War. However, the ships were so 
successful that some Star Destroyers were retrofitted with gravi­
ty well generators in order to provide a more powerful platform 
for interdiction technology. 

The Immobilizer 418 is typically accompanied by a contingent 
of more heavily armed vessels, not only to lie in ambush but also 
to protect the Interdictor-class heavy cruiser from the ships they 
are trapping. Pulling a Rebel fleet out of hyperspace typically 
makes the Immobilizer 418 the primary target of the trapped 
fleet, and as a result the ship needs protection in order to keep  
from being destroyed. 

Once the Immobilizer 418 has pulled the targets from hyper­
space, the ship’s crew must keep the gravity wells focused on 
the trapped fleet; otherwise their prey will escape into hyper­
space simply by outrunning the Immobilizer and its fellow ships. 
Directing a gravity well is no simple matter, requiring the same 
kind of precision and expertise as is required to operate a tractor 
beam, and the Immobilizer 418’s crew is   trained to maintain 
gravity wells in the heat of combat.

 INTERDICTOR CRUISER

Craft: Sienar Fleet Systems’ Immobilizer 418
Type: Interdictor-class heavy cruiser
Scale: Capital
Length: 600 meters
Skill: Capital ship piloting: Interdictor Cruiser
Crew: 2,783, gunners: 24, skeleton: 1,500/+10
Crew Skill: Astrogation 5D, capital ship gunnery 5D, capital ship pilot­

ing 5D, capital ship shields 4D

Passengers: 80 (troops)
Cargo Capacity: 5,500 metric tons
Consumables: 1.2 years
Cost: Not available for sale
Hyperdrive Multiplier: x2
Hyperdrive Backup: x8
Nav Computer: Yes
Maneuverability: 1D
Space: 6
Hull: 5D
Shields: 3D
Sensors:

Passive: 30/1D
Scan: 75/2D
Search: 150/3D
Focus: 5/4D

Weapons:
20 Laser Cannons

Fire Arc: 10 front, 5 left, 5 right
Crew: 1
Skill: Capital ship gunnery
Fire Control: 2D
Space Range: 1-3/12/25
Atmosphere Range: 2-6/24/50 km
Damage: 4D

4 Gravity Well Projector

Fire Arc: Turret
Crew: 1
Skill: Capital ship gunnery
Fire Control: 6D
Space Range: 1-5/75/150
Damage: Blocks hyperspace travel

Starfighter Complement: 24 starfighters (any variant)

Operating Gravity Well Projectors

Preventing escape into hyperspace is done by simply placing 
gravity wells close enough to a ship making it virtually impossi­
ble to make a jump due to the proximity of the interference.

Firing Gravity Well Projectors. This is done in the same man­
ner   as   firing   weapons.   The   gunner   picks   a   specific   location 
where the gravity well will be centered. The difficulty is based  
on the range of the gravity well projectors (Very Easy at point 
blank range, Easy at short range. Moderate at medium range, 
and Difficult at long range). There is no die cap for scale.

If   the   roll   is   successful,   the   gravity   well   is   placed   exactly 
where the gunner wanted. If the roll misses, the gravity well is 
centered somewhere else. Roll on the “Grenade Scatter Diagram” 
to   determine   the   direction   (see   Combat   &   Injuries),   and   to 
determine the distance roll on the chart below.

Range Of Attack
Point-blank
Short
Medium
Long

Distance (In units)
1D
2D
4D
8D

Effects. The effect of the gravity well depends upon how far 
it is from an enemy starship. First, determine the distance from 
the ship to the center of the gravity well. Then, add the number 
below to the difficulty to jump into hyperspace (the astrogation 
difficulty).

Range
0-6
7-12
13-18
19-24
25-36
37-48

Difficulty Add
Ship cannot Jump to hyperspace
+30 or more to difficulty
+21-29 to difficulty
+11-20 to difficulty
+6-10 to difficulty
+1-5 to difficulty

Gravity Well Projector Limitations.  While gravity well pro­
jectors are impressive weapons under the correct circumstances, 
they have their limitations.

Powering up a gravity well projector takes six rounds (30 sec­
onds). A gravity projector can be turned off with no delay, but 
the capacitors take eight rounds to shunt the power and com­
pletely   recycle,   meaning   that   the   gravity   well   operator   must 
wait eight rounds before placing another gravity well without 
risking   damaging   the   generator.   If   the   gravity   well   operator 
wants to risk blowing up the generator, he can do so sooner. To 
do   so,   add   the   following  difficulty   modifier,   depending  upon 
how many rounds the operator waits.

Rounds
1
2
3
4
5
6
7

Difficulty Modifier
+50
+40
+30
+20
+15
+10
+5

If the roll to place the new gravity well is missed by more  

than five points, the gravity well generator blows out.

Moving Gravity Wells.  Gravity wells, once placed, are diffi­
cult to move. To move a gravity well, the operator must make a 
capital ship gunnery roll, with the difficulty based on how far he 
wants to move the gravity well.

Movement
(In Units)
1-2
3-4
5-6
7+

Difficulty
Moderate
Difficult
Very Difficult
Heroic (add +10 for every
additional two units)

Affecting The Interdictor Cruiser. The great energy output of 
the gravity well projectors also affects the movement and han­
dling   of   Interdictor   cruisers.   For   every   gravity   well   projector 
being operated, apply the following modifiers: −1D to maneu­
verability,  −1  to move.  These  modifiers   are  cumulative,  so an 
Interdictor cruiser with all four gravity well projectors operating 
would have −4D to its maneuverability and −4 to its move.

To Force Ships From Hyperspace.  Tracking a ship’s hyper­
space vector isn’t easy, and often the Interdictor cruiser’s cap­
tain has to make an educated guess about where and when a 
target ship is going to be passing. If the information is simply 
wrong, for example, saying that the target ship is going to be 
flying to Coruscant when it is really going to Tatooine, there is 
nothing the Interdictor can do. However, if some of the facts are 
known, it is possible to bring a ship out of hyperspace.

If   the   captain   has   exact   information   on   the   ship’s   speed, 
route and destination, it is assumed that he will be able to place 
the gravity wells where they need to be at the appropriate time. 
However, if the captain doesn’t have exact information, placing 
the gravity wells is a hit-or-miss situation — if the target ship  
stops   and   makes   several   layovers,   or   changes   routes,   or   goes 
slower or faster than whoever tracked it thought it would, there 
is nothing the Interdictor can do. In other words, this must be 
left up to the gamemaster’s discretion.

However, if the trap is correctly placed, the Interdictor should 
have several other ships to assist it once a ship is brought out of 
hyperspace. When the ship is forced into realspace, the crew will 
in all likelihood be startled for a few moments, and it is in this 
period of confusion that the other ships must strike. Some ships 
will use blasters to render the ship helpless, while others will use 
tractor beams to latch onto it and prevent its escape. The Inter­
dictor can still be of assistance by using its gravity well projec­
tors   to   prevent   the   ship   from   escaping   into   hyperspace,   as 
outlined in the previous entry.

Mon Calamari MC80 Cruiser

Of   the   dozens   of   Mon   Calamari   warships   that   joined   the 
Rebel fleet, the MC80 is the most powerful. As equipped, the 
MC80 is the largest ship in the Rebel arsenal. Even though the 
MC80 is a full 400 meters shorter than an Imperial-class Star 
Destroyer, it is more than capable of giving its larger opponent a 
sound beating. The recklessness of Imperial commanders, com­
bined with the skill of the Mon Calamari gun crews, cost the 
Empire several of their most powerful warships. Following these 
losses. the Empire began to take the Mon Calamari threat more 
seriously.

No two MC8Os are the same, despite the fact that they have 
identical   alphanumeric   designations.   Their   capabilities   are 
roughly the same, but their external appearance and internal 
structure are quite different. When placed side by side, the vari­
ations between these enormous ships can be noticed by beings 
that are attentive enough to see them.

The   crew   complements   of   Alliance   MC8Os   feature   a   large 
cross-section   of   galactic   species,   but   the   command   crews   of 
these vessels are made up exclusively of Mon Calamari volun­
teers. The reasons for this are practical rather than elitist, since  
the   controls   and   other   ship   systems   were   created   with   Mon 
Calamari physiology in mind. Although a human might be able 
to contribute to the control of such a warship. he would never 
be as adept at doing so as his Mon Calamari counterparts.

It is often said by galactic historians that the Rebel Alliance 
would never have gained victory over the Galactic Empire if not 
for the generosity and sacrifice of the Mon Calamari. No one 
knows this more than the Mon Calamari themselves. Regardless, 
the Mon Calamari are a humble species, and they have never  
sought glory for their role in the conflict.

Despite the superior engineering that went into their con­
struction, the fact remains that Mon Calamari ships are smaller 
and less well armed than Imperial Star Destroyers. In order to 
make up for these deficiencies, the Mon Calamari have devel­
oped several tactics that take advantage of their ships’ excep­
tional speed and maneuverability. Although the Imperial Navy’s 
initial   contact   with   Mon   Calamari   cruisers   resulted   in   the 
destruction of several Star Destroyers, this was a result of the 
recklessness and audacity of Imperial Commanders. The Empire 
has learned its lesson, and such careless behavior on the part of 
its naval crews can no longer be assumed.

It is rare for a Mon Calamari cruiser to directly engage an 
Imperial Star Destroyer. There are so few MC8Os that such tac­
tics would quickly decimate the Rebel fleet. Even if losses were  
equal on either side, the Empire would still have a vast numeri­
cal advantage over the Alliance. The one thing that often makes 
all the difference are the small, well-equipped starfighters that 
are so commonly employed by the Alliance. A single MC80 is 
equipped with as many as 36 fighter craft, and this number can 
include   any   ratio   of   A-,   B-,   X-,   or   Y-wing   starfighters.   More 
often than not, an MC80 will sit at a safe distance and provide 
covering fire for its fighter wing and support ships.

Nebulon-B Frigate

In the earliest days of the Rebellion, the Alliance was hugely  
successful   in   its   attacks   against   Imperial   shipping  and  supply 
convoys. Much of the reason behind these successes was  the 
Empire’s   reluctance   to   assign   its   valuable   Star   Destroyers   to 
something as menial as escort duty. What the Empire required 
was a less expensive capital ship with the capacity to carry TIE 
fighters.

Well   armed   and   able   to  carry   two  dozen   TIE   fighters,   the 
Nebulon-B   quickly   stymied   the   majority   of   Alliance   raids   on 
Imperial shipping. Rebel pilots were dismayed to discover that 
raids on convoys, which were once considered to be veritable 
cakewalks, had become much more dangerous.

Despite the Empires dominance in regard to the Nebulon-B, 
the Alliance has managed to acquire several of the ships for its 
own   use.   A   number   of   these   ships   were   captured   by   daring 
attacks on Imperial dockyards. while others were placed under 
Alliance control by their sympathetic captains. These Nebulon-B 
frigates functioned as the Alliance’s primary assault ships during 
the early stages of the Galactic Civil War, until the Mon Cala­
mari joined the cause against the Empire.

Several   of   the   Alliance’s   Nebulon-B   frigates,   such   as   the 
Redemption, are modified to function as medical frigates. Up to 
700 wounded can be tended aboard a single cruiser, and the 
most technically advanced medical equipment available is used 
to treat them. In addition to organic doctors, these ships employ 
numerous medical droids. 

The Nebulon-B escort frigate was incredibly well suited to a 
number of tasks, such as anti-starfighter screening and suppres­
sion of mid-sized warships. Aside from performing escort duty, 
the Nebulon-B was easily adapted to other purposes. It was well 
suited to long-range patrols, able to go up to two years before 
its stores ran dry. Search and rescue duties were second nature 
for the Nebulon-B, and several such frigates were employed as 
deterrents to space pirates and smugglers. Because the Nebulon-
B   was   equipped   with   sophisticated   scanners   and   deep-space 
antenna arrays, it performed exceptionally well as a command 
center during space battles and planetary assaults.

Aside   from   its   agility   and   the   superior   starfighters   in   its 
launch bay, the MC80 has one other benefit over the Imperial 
Star Destroyer: a series of highly advanced backup shield gener­
ators.   These   generators   allow   an   MC80’s   deflector   shields   to 
recharge at twice the normal rate, adding to the ship’s overall 
durability.  For  every  three swift   actions  taken  to  recharge  its 
shields, an MCOO will regain 10 shield points instead of the nor­
mal S. This benefit has made all the difference in a number of 
battles. 

 MON CALAMARI MC80 STAR CRUISER

Craft: Mon Calamari MC80 Star Cruiser
Type: Star cruiser
Scale: Capital
Length: 1,200 meters
Skill: Capital ship piloting: Mon Calamari cruiser
Crew: 5,156, gunners 246, skeleton: 1,230/+10
Crew Skill: Capital ship piloting 5D+2, capital ship shields 5D, sensors  

3D+1, astrogation 4D, capital ship gunnery 5D

Passengers: 1,200 (troops)
Cargo Capacity: 20,000 metric tons; 5,000 cubic meters
Consumables: 2 years
Hyperdrive Multiplier: x1
Hyperdrive Backup: x9
Nav Computer: Yes
Maneuverability: 2D
Space: 6
Hull: 6D
Shields: 3D *

* Mon Cal star cruisers have 6D of back-up shields. When a die of 
shields is lost, if the shield operators can make an Easy capital ship  
shields total, one of the backup die codes of shields can be brought 
up to increase the shield back to 3D.

Sensors:

Passive: 40/1D
Scan: 60/2D
Search: 120/3D
Focus: 5/4D

Weapons:
48 Turbolaser Batteries (fire separately)

Fire Arc: 12 front, 12 left, 12 right, 12 back
Crew: 1 to 3
Skill: Capital ship gunnery
Fire Control: 2D
Space Range: 3-15/35/75
Atmosphere Range: 6-30/70/150 km
Damage: 4D

20 Ion Cannons (fire separately)

Fire Arc: 8 front, 4 left, 4 right, 4 back
Crew: 1 to 7
Skill: Capital ship gunnery
Fire Control: 3D
Space Range: 1-10/25/50
Atmosphere Range: 2-20/50/100 km
Damage: 3D

6 Tractor Beam Projectors (fire separately)

Fire Arc: 4 front, 1 left, 1 right
Crew: 1 to 10
Skill: Capital ship gunnery
Fire Control: 2D+2
Space Range: 1-5/15/30
Atmosphere Range: 2-10/30/60 km
Damage: 4D

Starfighter Complement:  36 A-, B-, X-, and/or Y-
wing fighters, two light freighters or shuttles

 NEBULON-B FRIGATE

Craft: Kuat Drive Yards’ Nebulon-B Frigate
Type: Escort starship
Scale: Capital
Length: 300 meters
Skill: Capital ship piloting: Nebulon-B
Crew: 854, gunners: 66, skeleton: 307/+10
Crew Skill:  Astrogation 3D, capital ship gunnery 4D+1, capital ship  
piloting 3D+2, capital ship shields 3D, sensors 3D+1, starship gun­
nery 4D+1

Passengers: 75 (troops)
Cargo Capacity: 6,000 metric tons
Consumables: 2 years
Cost: Not available for sale
Hyperdrive Multiplier: x2
Hyperdrive Backup: x12
Nav Computer: Yes
Maneuverability: 1D
Space: 4
Atmosphere: 280; 850 kmh
Hull: 3D+2
Shields: 2D
Sensors:

Passive: 40/1D
Scan: 75/2D
Search: 150/3D
Focus: 4/4D+2

Weapons:
12 Turbolaser Batteries

Fire Arc: 6 front, 3 left, 3 right
Crew: 1 (2), 2 (8), 4 (2)
Skill: Capital ship gunnery
Fire Control: 3D
Space Range: 3-15/35/75
Atmosphere Range: 6-30/70/150 km
Damage: 4D
12 Laser Cannons

Fire Arc: 6 front, 2 left, 2 right, 2 back
Crew: 1 (8), 2 (4)
Scale: Starfighter
Skill: Starship gunnery
Fire Control: 2D
Space Range: 1-3/12/25
Atmosphere Range: 2-6/24/50 km
Damage: 2D

2 Tractor Beam Projectors

Fire Arc: Front
Crew: 12
Skill: Capital ship gunnery
Fire Control: 2D
Space Range: 1-5/15/30
Atmosphere Range: 2-10/30/60 km
Damage: 4D

Starfighter Complement: 24 fighters

Republic Cruiser

Corellian Engineering Corporation’s Consular-class cruiser is 
in service toward the end of the Old Republic, though decades 
before the Clone Wars. It is an economic and simple starship, a 
change   from   the   more   grandiose   vessels   the   Republic   built 
before budgets got tight. This simple and utilitarian design does 
not sit well with all Republic diplomats, but it does make the 
ships appealing to Jedi negotiators who seek to draw as little 
attention to themselves as possible.

Though they were built to be unarmed diplomatic vessels, the 
ease of changing out the salon pod (as well as the highly modi­
fiable nature of all CEC vessels) naturally led to the addition of 
weapons on Consular-class cruisers when times got hard. Modi­
fied vessels served in the Judicial Forces and made up part of a 
war fleet during the Stark Hyperspace War. Several of the cruis­
ers, including the flagship Invincible, were heavily modified into 
Republic light assault cruisers (over the course of months in a 
major  shipyard),   while   others   were   given   more   modest  battle 
pods to replace their typical salon pods.

During the Clone Wars, Consular-class ships with specialized 
salon   pods   served   as   fighter   carriers,   missile  cruisers,   medical 
ships, long-range scouts, and point-defense escorts. After the 
war, ships of this type were often left for junk, scrapped, or sold 
to private enterprises. Many ended up as pirate craft, planetary 
patrol ships, and Rebel Alliance cruisers. Smugglers also valued 
modified   Consular-class   ships,   but   could   rarely   afford   them. 
(Those who succeeded in acquiring one, such as Rebel sympa­
thizer Rif Taranu and his Dead Reckoning, were generally very 
successful.) 

A Consular-class cruiser is designed to be a utilitarian ship, 
able to perform multiple types of missions. One major compo­
nent of the Consular-class is the salon pod, an easily swapped-

out section of the lower front of the ship. Each pod was an area 
of luxury accommodations and secure communications equip­
ment. Different salon pods catered to different species, allowing 
a single Consular with a dozen or so pods kept in spacedock to 
serve as a diplomatic vessel for multiple Senatorial groups as 
they needed it. Salon pods can also be ejected from the 
starship to act as lifeboat escape pods.

Other   kinds   of   pods   can   be   swapped   out   as   well, 
including pods with concussion missiles, bacta tanks, or 
sensor and jamming suites. Such pods might have as 
many as 20 emplacement points’ worth of systems and 
can be swapped out in a matter of minutes. Combined 
with   the   5   unused   emplacement   points   common   to 
most   CEC   starships,   the   ability   of   a   Consular-class   to 
adapt to new missions is only as limited as the mechanics 
who are modifying it. 

 REPUBLIC CRUISER

Craft: Corellian Engineering Corporation Consular-class Space Cruiser
Type: Diplomatic transport
Scale: Capital
Length: 115 meters
Skill: Capital ship piloting: Corellian space cruiser
Crew: 8
Crew Skill: Typically 6D in applicable skills
Passengers: 16
Cargo Capacity: 1,000 metric tons
Consumables: 6 months
Cost: 1.25 million
Hyperdrive Multiplier: x2
Nav Computer: Yes
Maneuverability: 1D+2
Space: 6
Atmosphere: 330; 950 kmh
Hull: 3D+1
Shields: 2D
Sensors:

Passive: 40/1D
Scan: 80/2D
Search: 100/3D
Focus: 5/4D

Trade Federation Battleship

The mainstay of the Trade Federation space fleet, the Lucre­
hulk-class  battleship is  a dangerous  and heavily armed vessel 
that can be a threat to any ship that gets too close. These bat­
tleships   come   in   two   varieties:   normal   battleships,  and   Droid 
Control Ships. The Droid Control Ships are far more rare, and 
usually were nestled behind a defensive screen where they could 
organize the droid starfighters and ground troops accordingly. 
Each Droid Control Ship houses massive command and control 
computers which broadcast control signals to all nearby droid 
troops and starfighters, coordinating their actions and issuing 
commands. Without the Droid Control Ships the droid members 
of the Confederacy could not function.

Originally   designed   as   freighters   but   retrofitted   with 
weapons, the Lucrehulk-class battleship was further upgraded at 
the start of the Clone Wars to be a more formidable combat 
vessel in comparison to the Republic space fleet. Since the ships 
are usually not engaged in direct combat with enemy starships, 
the Droid Control Ships were given a lower priority than other 
Lucrehulk-class battleships, and as such retain the same arma­
ment that they had around the time of the Battle of Naboo. 

Trade   Federation   battleships   operate   much   like   any   other 
capital ship. They use turbolasers and heavy laser cannons to 
pound opposing capital ships into submission, while the point-
defense quad lasers remain effective against starfighter assaults. 
Since   the   Lucrehulk-class   battleships   are   converted   freighters 
they carry no special systems designed specifically for combat, 
and have a number of design flaws that make them vulnerable 
to attack. These ships have extremely volatile reactors positioned 
near the cargo bays, and (as at least one Droid Control Ship at 
the Battle of Naboo discovered) an attack from within a cargo 
bay can destroy an entire ship.

 TRADE FEDERATION BATTLESHIP

Craft: Hoersch-Kessel Drive, Inc., Lucrehulk-class Battleship
Type: Battleship
Scale: Capital
Length: 3,170 meters
Skill: Capital ship piloting: Lucrehulk-class
Crew: 150 droids, 25 Neimoidian command staff
Crew Skill: Capital sip piloting 4D+1, capital ship gunnery 4D+1, capi­

tal ship shields 4D+1

Passengers: 329,600 battle droids
Cargo Capacity: 5 million metric tons
Consumables: 500 days
Cost: Not available for sale
Hyperdrive Multiplier: x2
Hyperdrive Backup: x10
Nav Computer: Yes
Maneuverability: 1D
Space: 3
Hull: 6D
Shields: 3D
Sensors:

Passive: 30/1D
Scan: 60/2D
Search: 90/3D+2
Focus: 6/4D

Weapons pre-Clone Wars:
42 Quadlasers

Fire Arc: 14 front, 14 rear, 7 right, 7 left.
Scale: Starfighter
Skill: Starship gunnery
Fire Control: 2D
Space Range: 1-5/10/20
Atmosphere Range: 100-500/1/2 km
Damage: 5D

Weapons during Clone Wars: 
51 Turbolasers 

Fire Arc: 13 front, 13 right, 13 left, 12 rear 
Skill: Capital ship gunnery 
Fire Control: 2D 
Space Range: 3-15/35/75 
Atmosphere Range: 6-30/70/150 km 
Damage: 5D 

520 Assault Laser Cannons 

Fire Arc: 92 front, 184 right, 184 left, 60 rear 
Scale: Starfighter 
Skill: Starship gunnery 
Fire Control: 1D+1 
Space Range: 2-10/20/40 
Atmosphere Range: 0.2-1/2/4 km 
Damage: 7D 

185 Quadlaser Batteries 

Fire Arc: 51 front, 55 right, 55 left, 24 rear 
Scale: Starfighter 
Skill: Starship gunnery 
Fire Control: 2D 
Space Range: 1-5/10/20 
Atmosphere Range: 100-500/1/2 km 
Damage: 4D 

Starship Complement: 50 landing ships, 1500 droid starfighters
Ground Assault Complement:  550 MTTs, 1500 troop carriers, 6250 

AATs

Venator-class Star Destroyer

The   Venator-class   Star   Destroyer   was   the   brainchild   of 
designer Lire Blissex, who created it to serve as a multipurpose 
warship during the Clone Wars. Also called a  Republic attack 
cruiser,  the ship  was  very successful  as an  escort and a  bat­
tle-group leader and often served as a flagship for Jedi com­
manders.

An able warship and among the most dangerous ships of its 
era, eventually the Venator serves best as part of a massive fleet, 
acting as both a primary fighting ship and a starfighter carrier 
while   supporting  numerous   more   specialized   capital   ships.  By 
itself, or as part of a group with smaller ships, the Venator lacks 
the ability to carry out long-range missions. Its relatively small 
capacity for supplies, coupled with its need for constant influx 
of dozens of new fighters and fighter parts, forces a Venator to 
either stay near Core worlds or support a long supply line of 
large freighters. 

Intended to be in the thick of the fighting beside its own 
starfighter   complement,   the   Venator  carries   several   point-de­
fense laser cannon batteries. These are thickest around its mas­
sive   flight   deck,   to   ensure   that   enough   firepower   exists   to 
prevent enemy fighters from entering the ship.

To allow its hundreds of fighters to quickly launch and be 
recovered,   a   Venator   has   a   dorsal   flight   deck   with   sliding 
armored doors. When a Venator’s dorsal flight deck is opened, 
the ship’s hull rating is reduced by 1D to 4D+1 . After too many 
ships of the class were lost to hits into the open flight deck, the  
feature was abandoned for future Star Destroyer designs.

 VENATOR STAR DESTROYER

Craft: Kuat Drive Yards Venator-class Star Destroyer
Type: Star destroyer
Scale: Capital
Length: 1,137 meters
Skill: Capital ship piloting: Star Destroyer
Crew: 7,400, gunners: 124, skeleton 3,025/+15
Crew Skill: Astrogation 3D+2, capital ship gunnery 4D+2, capital ship  

piloting 5D, capital ship shields 4D, sensors 3D+2

Passengers: 2,000 (troops)
Cargo   Capacity:  20,000   metric   tons,   40   LAAT/I   gunships,   and   24 

heavy walkers of various makes

Consumables: 2 years
Cost: Not available for sale (valued at 59 millions)
Hyperdrive Multiplier: x1
Hyperdrive Backup: x15
Nav Computer: Yes
Maneuverability: 1D+1
Space: 6
Atmosphere: 340; 975 kmh
Hull: 5D+1 (4D+1 if dorsal flight deck doors are open)
Shields: 3D+1
Sensors:

Passive: 40/1D
Scan: 70/2D
Search: 150/3D
Focus: 4/3D+2

Weapons:
8 Heavy Turbolasers

Fire Arc: 1 battery front/right, 1 battery front/left (partial turrets)
Crew: 5
Skill: Capital ship gunnery
Fire Control: 3D
Space Range: 3-15/35/75
Atmosphere Range: 6-30/70/150 km
Damage: 6D+1

2 Medium Dual Turbolasers

Fire Arc: 1 front/left, 1 front/right (partial turrets)
Crew: 3
Skill: Capital ship gunnery
Fire Control: 4D
Space Range: 3-15/35/75
Atmosphere Range: 6-30/70/150 km
Damage: 5D

26 Point-Defense Laser Cannons

Fire Arc: 12 front, 6 left, 6 right, 2 rear

Crew: 3
Scale: Starfighter
Skill: Starship gunnery
Fire Control: 3D
Space Range: 1-3/10/20
Atmosphere Range: 400-1/5/10 km
Damage: 5D

6 Tractor Beam Projectors

Fire Arc: 4 front, 1 left, 1 right
Crew: 3
Skill: Capital ship gunnery
Fire Control: 2D
Space Range: 1-5/15/30
Atmosphere Range: 2-10/30/60 km
Damage: 5D

4 Proton Torpedo Tubes (18 torpedoes each)

Fire Arc: Front
Crew: 3
Skill: Capital ship gunnery
Fire Control: 2D
Space Range: 2-12/30/60
Atmosphere Range: 4-24/60/120 km
Damage: 9D

Starfighter Complement: 192 V-wings, 192 Eta-2 Actis interceptors, 

36 ARC-170s.

Ground Assault Complement:  40 heavy airspeeders, 24 heavy walk­

ers, various support craft

SPACE TRANSPORTS

Space transports cover the entire range of non-combat star­
ships, small transports (like the YT-1300 freighter), bulk cruisers 
with millions of cubic meters  of cargo space, shuttles, luxury 
cruise liners, and any other ship of civilian use. All of these ves ­
sels use the space transports skill.

Firespray-31 Patrol Craft

Designed   to   function   as   a   prisoner   transport   and   system 
patrol ship, the Firespray-31 patrol craft is a highly customizable 
vessel that is favored by law enforcement officials and bounty 
hunters alike. With an unorthodox design and a moderate stock 
armament, the Firespray-31 is a tough and durable vessel that 
can withstand the rigors of patrol and escort duty and deliver a 
punishing counterattack against any assailants. 

The   Firespray-31   boasts   an   unusual   design   that   keeps   the 
cockpit facing the sky while landing, but facing forward while in 
flight. Though such an unusual configuration requires some get­
ting used to by the pilot, most owners of this system patrol craft 
insist that the design keeps the engines from being damaged 
when the vessel lands and allows for very rapid vertical takeoffs

  Though most of the original Firespray-31 prototypes were 
destroyed some time before the Clone Wars, a few of the ships 
(such as Slave I) made their way into the hands of private citi­
zens. Most were constructed from blueprints sold by Kuat Sys­
tems Engineering to buyers who had the means of constructing 
the ships themselves, since Jango Fett destroyed all of the offi­
cially manufactured prototype models. Following the rise of the 
Empire, Kuat Systems Engineering began to produce the ship in 
large   numbers,   advertising   the   vessels   as   highly   customizable 
starships that could be used for a number of roles, including 
patrol, pursuit, and escort. Kuat Systems Engineering also sold a 
large number of the craft to Mandalorian mercenaries, including 
the Mandalorian Protectors, who continued to use the ships up 
through the Yuuzhan Vong War. 

The stock Firespray-31 patrol craft boasts a pair of potent 
blaster cannons, allowing buyers who purchase the ship right 
off the assembly line to put the vessel into service with minimal 
modifications.   The   ship   is   modestly   armored   and   has   a   hull 
integrity   that   few   similar   ships   can   claim;   likewise,   the   Fire­
spray-31 comes standard with shielding, giving it an edge over 
cheaper transport ships such as the YT-1300. The combination 
of   a   strong   hull.  and  moderately   powerful   shields   allows   the 
Firespray-31 to take a beating while continuing to fight on.

The ease with which the Firespray-31 is modified makes it a 
favorite   ship   for   bounty   hunters,   the   most   famous   example 
being Jango and Boba Fett and their ship, Slave I. 

 FIRESPRAY PATROL/ATTACK CRAFT

Craft: Kuat Systems Engineering Firespray-class Patrol Vessel
Scale: Starfighter
Length: 21.5 meters
Skill: Space transports: Firespray patrol/attack craft
Crew: 1; gunners: 2
Passengers: 4
Cargo Capacity: 70 metric tons
Consumables: 1 month
Cost: 120,000 (new); 45,000 (used)
Hyperdrive Multiplier: x3
Hyperdrive Backup: x15
Nav Computer: Yes
Maneuverability: 1D
Space: 5
Atmosphere: 295; 850 kmh
Hull: 4D
Shields: 1D
Sensors:

Passive: 10/0D
Scan: 25/1D
Search: 50/1D+1
Focus: 2/2D

Weapons:
2 Twin-Mounted Blaster Cannons (fire separately)

Fire Arc: Turret
Skill: Starship gunnery
Fire Control: 2D
Space Range: 1-3/10/20
Atmosphere Range: 100-300/1/2 km
Damage: 4D

Ghtroc 720 Freighter

Ghtroc   Industries   produced   the   class   720   freighter   in   an 
effort to compete with Corellian Engineering’s YT-1300. Despite 
an ingenious marketing campaign, factory incentives, and posi­
tive reviews, the 720 failed to match the popularity of the YT-
1300 within the Core Worlds and Inner Rim systems. It did man­
age   to   gain   a   foothold   among   traders   within   the   Outer   Rim 
colonies,   though   this   modest   success   wasn’t   enough   to   push 
Corellian Engineering out of its position as industry leader.

Atmosphere: 260; 750 kmh
Hull: 3D+2
Shields: 1D
Sensors:

Passive: 15/0D
Scan: 30/1D
Search: 50/3D
Focus: 2/4D

Weapons:
Double Laser Cannon

Fire Arc: Front
Crew: 1
Skill: Starship gunnery
Fire Control: 1D+2
Space Range: 1-3/12/25
Atmosphere Range: 100-300/1.2/2.5 km
Damage: 4D

J-Type Star Skiff

As   the   Clone   Wars   raged   and   numerous   Senators   became 
increasingly   uncomfortable   with   the   political   climate   of   the 
republic, even the most peaceful of traditions had to be reexam­
ined.   The   J-Type   star   skiff   was   the   first   diplomatic   vessel   of 
Naboo to be armed (with a modest pair of linked lasers) and the 
first to have a gunners  console. Its design also sacrificed the 
sleek,   all-chromium   hull   to   place   more   practical   (and   sturdy) 
access   grills   and   powerful   sublight   engines.   Still   a   thing   of 
beauty, the star skiff was clearly designed with potential com­
bat, escape, and repair in mind.

Though   Queen   Apailana   of   Naboo   herself   never   used   the 
armed star skiff, it was loaned out to Senator Amidala, a sign of 
the   Senator’s   great   popularity   with   her   homeworld   and   her 
monarch. After Amidala died, the star skiff was retired, because 
it had become a painful reminder of the Senators last days in 
service   to   her   people.   However,   other   Senators,   seeking   to 
increase their own standing and political power, began purchas­
ing similar vessels (often with faux chromium, to save on costs). 
Lovingly and skillfully hand-crafted, as are all royal vessels 
built by the Theed Palace Space Vessel Engineering Corps, the 
star skiff is superior in design and construction to any mass-
produced   vessel.   A   class   .5   hyperdrive   allows   it   to   carry   out 
diplomatic   missions   with   alacrity,   its   interior   reflects   the   full 
comfort  of  an  advanced luxury  upgrade, and  its  considerable 
storage space allows any number of diplomatic gifts to be trans­
ported in style (and could even double as small cabins for a few  
guests). However, it also has laser cannons that are augmented 
to the edge of laser technology, two medical beds, and a shield 
generator as powerful as those on most gunships. Though far 
too expensive to be practical as a warship. a star skiff could fly 
next to Naboo starfighters as a flag vessel if the situation called 
for it.

Although   Ghtroc   Industries   eventually   fell   by  the   wayside, 
wallowing   in   the   throes   of   bankruptcy,   tens  of   thousands  of 
class 720 freighters are still in operation throughout the galaxy. 
Many veteran traders, smugglers. and pilots consider the 720 to 
be   just   as   good   as,   if   not   better   than,   the   YT-1300.   ’   The 
freighters   are   affordable,   easily   configured,   and   user-friendly, 
making them popular with both old hands and rookies.

Many of the galaxy’s pilots have flown a 720 at one time or 
another. When he was investigating Poderis’s possible use as an 
Imperial   transfer   point,   Luke   Skywalker   employed   a   heavily 
modified Ghtroc 720 to secretly ferry his X-wing fighter. The 
Ghtroc’s cargo bay was gutted by Alliance techs and retrofitted 
with a modified hull section that could break away, allowing the 
X-wing to depart the 720 while in flight. 

When compared to the stock YT-1300, the Ghtroc 720 has 
several compelling standard features. It comes equipped with a 
small shield generator, which is probably its most attractive ben­
efit. It is also much more maneuverable than the YT-1300, and it 
includes a cargo area that is more than a third larger than the 
YT-1300’s. Given the ubiquitous nature of the 720, spare parts 
are easy to find, even in remote or far-flung settlements.

On the other hand, the Ghtroc is slightly slower than the YT-
1300. Although it is armed with a double laser cannon emplace­
ment, the weapon is in a fixed-forward firing position instead of 
in   a   turret   mount.   Starship   techs   often   complain   that   the 
Ghtroc’s ion drives and hyperdrive are spread out between the 
craft’s fore and aft instead of being centrally located. This con­
figuration requires that engineers share time between two loca­
tions, which can be inconvenient under combat conditions.

 GHTROC 720 FREIGHTER

Craft: Ghtroc Industries class 720 Freighter
Type: Light freighter
Scale: Starfighter
Length: 35 meters
Skill: Space transports: Ghtroc freighter
Crew: 1, gunners: 1
Crew Skill: Varies widely
Passengers: 10
Cargo Capacity: 135 metric tons
Consumables: 2 months
Cost: 98,500 (new), 23,000 (used)
Hyperdrive Multiplier: x2
Hyperdrive Backup: x15
Nav Computer: Yes
Maneuverability: 1D
Space: 3

 J-TYPE STAR SKIFF

Craft: Theed Palace Space Vessel Engineering Corps J-Type Star Skiff
Scale: Personal Starship
Length: 29.2 meters
Skill: Space transports: J-type starship
Crew: 3, skeleton: 1/+5
Passengers: 3
Cargo Capacity: 10 metric tons
Consumables: 1 month
Cost: not for sale (5,000,000 used on black market)
Hyperdrive Multiplier: x0.5
Hyperdrive Backup: x5
Nav Computer: Yes
Maneuverability: 2D+1
Space: 7
Atmosphere: 350; 1,050 kmh
Hull: 5D
Shields: 2D+1
Sensors:

Passive: 30/1D
Scan: 70/2D
Search: 80/3D+1
Focus: 5/3D+2

Weapons:
2 Laser Cannons (fire-linked)

Fire Arc: Front
Skill: Starship gunnery
Fire Control: 2D+2
Space Range: 1-3/12/25
Atmosphere Range: 100-300/1.2/2.5 km
Damage: 5D

Lambda-class Shuttle

One   of   the   most   recognizable   Imperial   spacecraft   is   the 
Lambda-class shuttle. A workhorse of the Imperial fleet, Lamb­
da-class shuttles have transported Imperial luminaries such as 
Lord Darth Vader, as well as Emperor Palpatine himself. It is per­
haps   ironic   that   one   particular   Lambda,   the  Tydirium,   was 
employed by the Rebel Alliance to deliver a strike force to the 
forest moon  of Endor. It  was this strike team that ultimately 
brought the second Death Star’s defensive shields down, allow­
ing the Rebel fleet to converge and subsequently destroy the 
space station.

The Lambda design was developed as the direct successor to 
the Theta-class shuttle by a group of former Cygnus Spaceworks 
engineers. These engineers had been enticed into defecting to 
Sienar, lured by promises of high pay and tangible benefits. Even 
though Sienar was responsible for the ship’s design and initial 
production run, Cygnus Spaceworks was later subcontracted to 
produce   a   heavily   armed   military   version   that   was   equipped 
with ten laser cannons.

The Lambda was not used solely by the Empire. Even though 
upward of ninety percent of all Lambdas were in Imperial pos­
session. the nonmilitary version, produced by Sienar, was avail­
able for sale on the open market for a short time, and numerous 
craft   were   sold   to   different   sector   governments,   corporate 
fleets,   and   other   private   parties.   Similarly,   the   Rebel   Alliance 
kept a small fleet of the shuttles on hand for the transportation 
of sensitive personnel between different fleet elements. These 
shuttles were identical to the standard model, but lacked the 
code transponders of those utilized by the Empire.

Following   the   collapse   of   the   Empire,   Cygnus   Spaceworks 
continued to produce Lambda shuttles. Many of these shuttles 
were put to use by both the New Republic and the Galactic Fed­
eration of Free Alliances. 

The Lambda shuttle is best known as a multi-use transport, 
capable of ferrying both troops and dignitaries. When used as a 
troop transport, it excels at high-profile missions that require a 
significant amount of discretion. When the ship is used as a per­
sonal transport for Imperial dignitaries and officers, the cargo 
space   is   often   converted   into  a   comfortable   living   area   with 
many of the amenities of a star yacht. Those Lambdas used to 
ferry troops are much less comfortable, and are equipped with 
bench seating and a limited number of bucket seats.

Though the ship was designed primarily for space flight, the 
tri-wing construction of the Lambda gives it excellent stability 
when flown in an atmosphere. It is a fast ship when compared 
to others of its class, yet it is especially vulnerable to enemy fire 
when landing or taking off. Though it is equipped with a num­
ber of effective weapon systems, the Lambda is unable to out­
maneuver most starfighters. Because the Lambda is well armed, 
it does not technically require a fighter escort. Regardless, few 
of the shuttles traveled alone, depending on the sensitivity of 
their individual missions.

 LAMBDA SHUTTLE

Craft: Sienar Fleet Systems Shuttle
Type: Lambda-class Shuttle
Scale: Starfighter
Length: 20 meters
Skill: Space transports: Lambda Shuttle
Crew: 2 (2 can coordinate), gunners: 4, Skeleton: 1/+10
Crew skill: Space transports 5D, starship gunnery 5D, starship shields  

4D

Passengers: 10 (modifiable to hold up to 20)
Cargo capacity: 80 metric tons
Consumables: 2 months
Cost: No available for sale (valued at 240,000 credits)
Hyperdrive multiplier: x1
Hyperdrive backup: x10
Nav Computer: Yes
Maneuverability: 1D
Space: 5
Atmosphere: 295; 850 kmh
Hull: 4D
Shields: 1D+2

Sensors:

Passive: 20/0D
Scan: 40/1D
Search: 80/2D
Focus: 4/2D+2

Weapons:
3 Double Blaster Cannons
Fire arc: 2 front, 1 back
Crew: 3
Skill: Starship gunnery
Fire control: 2D
Space range: 1-3/12/25
Atmosphere range: 100-300/1.2/2.5 km
Damage: 4D

2 Double Laser Cannons (Fire-linked)

Fire arc: Front
Crew: 1
Skill: Starship gunnery
Fire control: 3D+1
Space range: 1-4/12/25
Atmosphere range: 100-400/1.2/2.5 km
Damage: 4D

Medium Transport

Though   numerous   transport   ships   are   employed   across  the 
galaxy, the Gallofree Yards transport is one of the most ubiqui­
tous and often-used. It is a sleek-looking vessel, especially con­
sidering its size, but its outward appearance belies its slow and 
ponderous nature. The ships can be used as freighters, but due 
to their low speed are most often used as short-range trans ­
ports, moving goods and passengers from planet to planet, plan­
et to station, or star system to star system.

During the Clone Wars, the Gallofree was popular with the 
Republic Navy as a resupply craft. Large numbers of the trans­
ports were used to supplement the Old Republic’s extensive sup­
ply   lines,   enabling   those   lines   to   be   stretched   thin   without 
significant  interruption   to  the   flow   of  goods   to  the   front.   A 
scant   few   were   modified   with   improved   shields   and   heavy 
weaponry and used to lure unwary pirates to their doom.

As the Clone Wars wound down and the Dark Times began, 
many   of   these   venerable   transports   found   themselves   in   the 
employ   of   the   Rebel   Alliance.   Following   the   Battle   of   Endor, 
many Gallofrees were modified into salvage ships. They became 
integral   to   the   New   Republic’s   initial   campaigns   against   the 
Imperial Remnant, because parts and equipment salvaged from 
long-dead ships were valuable commodities. 

In its stock configuration, the Gallofree GR-75 is utilitarian 
and unexciting. Equipped with a large cargo hold and precious 
little in the way of defensive systems, it is a sitting duck on the 
space   lanes   unless   accompanied   by   an   escort.   Its   sublight 
engines and hyperdrive are slow, and it maneuvers like a sick 
bantha. The ship is relatively easy to modify, however, given the 
appropriate parts and mechanical expertise.

The   GR-75s   used  by   the  Alliance   are   often   equipped   with 
upgraded weaponry, shields, and engines. Internal systems are 
often   rearranged,   giving   each   Gallofree   a   unique   floor   plan 
depending on its specific function. Most often, the GR-75 is uti­
lized to move troops and material. Others are modified to serve 
as hospital ships, landing craft, or salvage vessels. Regardless of 
its specific function, the GR-75 rarely looks different from the 
outside. 

 GALLOFREE MEDIUM TRANSPORT

Craft: Gallofree Yards Transport
Type: Medium transport
Scale: Capital
Length: 90 meters
Skill: Space transports: Gallofree Yards transport
Crew: 6, gunners: 1, skeleton: 3/+10
Crew   Skill:  Astrogation   4D,   space   transports   4D,   starship   gunnery  

3D+1, starship shields 3D

Cargo Capacity: 19,000 metric tons
Consumables: 6 months
Cost: 350,000 (new), 125,000 (used)
Hyperdrive Multiplier: x4
Space: 2
Atmosphere: 225; 650 kmh
Hull: 2D
Shields: 1D
Sensors:

Passive: 10/0D
Scan: 25/1D
Search: 40/2D
Focus: 2/3D

Weapons:
4 Twin Laser Cannons (fire-linked)

Fire Arc: Turret
Crew: 1
Scale: Starfighter
Skill: Starship gunnery
Fire Control: 1D
Space Range: 1-3/12/25
Atmosphere Range: 100-300/1.2/2.5 km
Damage: 4D

Guardian-Class Light Cruiser

A customs and inspection vessel designed by Sienar Fleet Sys­
tems, the Guardian-class light cruiser is a fast and durable ship  
capable of patrolling remote systems without the need for back­
up or support. The Guardian-class light cruiser was designed to 
be relatively autonomous, though of course it was not expected 
to fend off large-scale assaults. For the most part, the Guardian-
class light cruiser handles smuggler and pirate traffic in remote 
systems, acting as both a command post and enforcement ves­
sel. Though considered a light cruiser, the ship is actually just a 
heavily armed space transport designed to let small crews patrol 

one time without retooling the CEC shipyards. As a side effect, 
this helped make all YT ships extremely modular and easily mod­
ified, a fact that went far to explain the line’s ongoing populari­
ty with independent traders, smugglers, and pirates.

By far the most successful YT designers are the YT-1300, YT-
2000,  and YT-2400.  However,  all  YT  ships  have at  least  small 
dedicated followings and in some cases are the subject of col­
lector’s clubs and vintage ship shows. Further, because the YT 
ships are so easily modified, it’s not always easily to tell what 
stock ship is at the core of a particular customized YT vessel. 

All   YT-series   ships   are   solid   light   freighters,   renowned   for 
being   sturdy   and   reliable.   Their   greatest   asset   is   their   easily 
modified nature. With less effort than for nearly any other ship 
line, a YT-series vessel can be fine-tuned to act as a smuggler, 
bulk hauler, luxury transport, or even a gunship or patrol craft. 
Every   YT-series   ship   has   10   unused   emplacement   points   as   a 
stock ship (these emplacements may be used to add external 
add-ons), and new captains are quick to use them to add more 
guns, better shields, or whatever else their minds can conjure 
up. This adaptability is intentional, and has often led to authori­
ties claiming that CC designs the ships for use by smugglers and 
pirates. The CC points out that thousands of YT ships are being 
used   by   law-abiding   free   traders   and   small   companies.   Of 
course, how many of those “law-abiding” customers are actually 
smugglers or spies is unknown and, more important, not prov­
able in court.

YT-1300.  Perhaps the most adaptable light cargo transport 
in the galaxy, the YT-1300 design is built on a modular design to 
suit the needs of a wide variety of clients, many of whom aren’t 
Human, let alone bipedal. The YT-1300 is an excellent all-pur­
pose cargo transport, with powerful engines and a sturdy hull. 
The Corellian Engineering Corporation was quick to realize that 
it had a winner on its hands and made almost as many credits 
selling conversion kits as it did selling the transports themselves.

 YT-1300 TRANSPORT

Craft: Corellian Engineering Corp. YT-1300 Transport
Scale: Starfighter
Length: 26.7 meters
Skill: Space transports: YT-1300
Crew: 1 (1 can coordinate), gunners: 1
Crew Skill: Varies widely
Passengers: 6; 9 (YT-1300p); None (YT-1300f)
Cargo Capacity: 100 metric tons; 50 (YT-1300p); 150 (YT-1300f)
Consumables: 2 months
Cost: 100,000 (new), 25,000 (used)

a star system with few amenities. Despite the fact that the ship 
has a hyperdrive, the Empire typically limits the Guardian-class 
light cruiser to missions within a single star system. Any exercis­
es that would normally force a Guardian-class light cruiser away 
from its home system usually warrant the assistance of larger 
ships, typically corvettes or smaller frigates.

 GUARDIAN LIGHT CRUISER

Craft: Sienar Fleet Systems Guardian-class light cruiser
Type: Inter-system customs vessel
Scale: Starfighter
Length: 42 meters
Skill: Space transports: Guardian cruiser
Crew: 16 (3 can coordinate), gunners: 4, skeleton: 8/+10
Crew   Skill:  Space   transports   5D,   starship   gunnery   5D+2,   starship  

shields 5D+1

Passengers: 6 (prisoners in brig)
Cargo Capacity: 200 metric tons
Consumables: 3 months
Cost: Not available for sale
Hyperdrive Multiplier: x1
Hyperdrive Backup: x10
Nav Computer: Yes
Maneuverability: 1D
Space: 9
Atmosphere: 400; 1,150 kmh
Hull: 5D
Shields: 2D
Sensors:

Passive: 30/1D
Scan: 60/2D
Search: 90/4D
Focus: 4/4D+1

Weapons:
4 Laser Cannons

Fire Arc: 2 front, 2 turret
Crew: 1
Skill: Starship gunnery
Fire Control: 2D+2
Space Range: 1-3/12/25
Atmosphere Range: 100-300/1.2/2.5 km
Damage: 5D

YT-Series Transports

The YT series is a popular line of light freighters built by the 
Corellian   Engineering   Corporation   that   includes   the   YT-1300, 
the model of vessel that includes the Millennium Falcon. The 
first   YT   freighters   were   built   during   the   height   of   the   Old 
Republic, and new models continue to be produced in every era 
since. The core design of the YT series is built around two basic 
components — a disc-shaped main body and a large external 
cockpit   area   with   extensive   windows.   Although   some   models 
moved away from these core design elements, they would return 
in later designs. Indeed, CEC made a point of reusing as many of 
the   same   parts   as   possible   between   designs,   which   had   the 
advantage of allowing many different YT lines to be produced at 

Hyperdrive Multiplier: x2
Hyperdrive Backup: x12
Nav Computer: Yes
Maneuverability: 1D
Space: 4
Atmosphere: 480; 800 kmh
Hull: 4D
Sensors:

Passive: 10/0D
Scan: 25/1D
Search: 40/2D
Focus: 2/3D

Weapons:
Double Laser Cannons

Fire Arc: Turret
Crew: 1
Skill: Starship gunnery
Fire Control: 2D
Space Range: 1-3/12/25
Atmosphere Range: 100-300/1.2/2.5 km
Damage: 3D+1

YT-2000.  The   YT-2000   was   designed   to   be   a   straight 
improvement   of   the   YT-1300,   borrowing   successful   concepts 
from other YT designs as well (such as the YT-1930’s symmetrical 
layout). Because it was produced in a more turbulent era, the 
YT-2000   boasted   heavier   standard   shields   and   weapons   than 
most civilian freighters, a fact that caused many Imperial offi­
cials to view its “civilian” market with suspicion. Extensive cor­
porate   espionage   leaked   the   early   design   specifications   to 
competing  shipyards, leading to CC  putting  the  YT-2000  into 
production before all its potential drawbacks had been worked 
out. As a result, the ship is somewhat touchier than most of the 
extremely reliable YT designs (a character making a space trans­
port   repair  check   to   modify   or   repair   a   YT-2000   takes   a   −2 
penalty). However, its extensive cargo capacity, good defenses, 
and amazing maneuverability for a ship its size, coupled with 
plenty of spare space and power to make custom modifications, 
catapulted the YT-2000 in popularity among its owners. The line 
was discontinued early not because of poor sales, but so CEC 
could push the new YT-2400 design, which had not been com­
promised by espionage or rushed design work.

 YT-2000 TRANSPORT

Craft: Corellian Engineering Corp. YT-2000 Transport
Type: Light Freighter
Scale: Starfighter
Length: 29 meters
Skill: Space transports: YT-2000
Crew: 1-4 (can coordinate)
Passengers: 7
Cargo Capacity: 115 metric tons

Consumables: 3 months
Cost: 150,000 (new), 45,000 (used
Hyperdrive Multiplier: x2
Hyperdrive Backup: x12
Nav Computer: Yes
Maneuverability: 1D+1
Space: 4
Atmosphere: 480; 800 kmh
Hull: 4D
Shields: 1D
Sensors:

Passive: 10/0D
Scan: 25/1D
Search: 40/2D
Focus: 2/3D

Weapons:
Double Laser Cannons

Fire Arc: Turret
Crew: 1
Skill: Starship gunnery
Fire Control: 1D
Space Range: 1-3/12/25
Atmosphere Range: 100-300/1.2/2.5 km
Damage: 4D

YT-2400.  The  YT-2400  is  CEC’s   bid to produce a  “perfect” 
light freighter. An upgrade of the YT-2000 design, it incorpo­
rates everything learned during the run of the long and success­
ful   YT   line.   Though   it   uses   many   of   the   same   technology 
upgrades as the short-run YT-2000, the YT-2400 returned to the 
off-center cockpit  arrangement. Though  for both smaller and 
larger  craft  a  center-mounted  cockpit  makes  sense,  it   turned 
out that many pilots preferred an offset cockpit so they could 
easily dock their ships with the cockpit side directly against a 
wall or similar obstruction.

Though  the YT-2400 isn’t  as sturdy as the YT-2000, it has 
thirty percent more cargo capacity, an escape pod built into the 
cockpit section, and better maneuverability. Since most owners 
end up adding additional weapons and defenses after purchase 
anyway, the slightly reduced martial capability of the YT-2400 
does little to discourage sales.

 YT-2400 TRANSPORT

Craft: Corellian YT-2400 Transport
Type: Stock light freighter
Scale: Starfighter
Length: 21 meters
Skill: Space transports: YT-2400
Crew: 2, gunners: 1, skeleton: 1/+10
Crew Skill: Varies widely
Passengers: 6
Cargo Capacity: 150 metric tons
Consumables: 2 months
Cost: 130,000 (new), 32,000 (used)
Hyperdrive Multiplier: x2
Hyperdrive Backup: x12
Nav Computer: Yes
Maneuverability: 1D+2
Space: 4
Atmosphere: 480; 800 kmh
Hull: 3D
Shields: 2D
Sensors:

Passive: 10/0D
Scan: 25/1D
Search: 40/2D
Focus: 2/3D

Weapons:
Double Laser Cannons

Fire Arc: Turret
Crew: 1
Skill: Starship gunnery
Fire Control: 2D
Space Range: 1-3/12/25
Atmosphere Range: 100-300/1.2/2.5 km
Damage: 4D

REPLACEMENT SYSTEMS

In time, the characters may decide to completely replace a 
starship’s   systems.   After   they’ve   spent   enough   time   patching 
together that modified hyperdrive, they may decide to get rid of 
it and upgrade to a more modern hyperdrive system. What fol­
lows are some possible replacement systems they may wish to 
install aboard their starships.

Note that these parts are designed to be used in a freighter 
or   space   transport   type   vessel.   Capital   ships   will   rarely   have 
modified components. If they do, they are likely custom-built by 
the ships engineer, corporation, or government which operates 
the   vessel.   Starfighters   generally   operate   at   the   envelope   of 
their capabilities already. It is very difficult to find the space, 
available   power,   and   integrate   new   systems   into   a   compact 
starfighter. Thus, modifications — beyond a few tweaks — are 
rare among starfighters

Weight and Cargo Space

All   the   replacement   systems   weigh  something,   and   that 
weight is subtracted from the amount of cargo the ship can car­
ry. As the ship is refitted, players must keep track of how much 
cargo capacity remains. This will dramatically affect how prof­
itable each run can be: ships with high cargo capacity can carry 
a lot more and make a lot  more money. On the other hand, 
these ships are probably slow and/or lightly armed and armored, 
with all the risks that entails.

During the campaign, when replacing one device with a new 
one, adjust the ship’s cargo capacity accordingly (subtract the 
weight of the first device and then add the weight of the sec­
ond).

REPLACEMENT DRIVES

The following is a selection of some of the possible replace­
ment drives that starship (generally space transports) captains 
can select.

 STARSCREAM-9 ION DRIVE

Model: Sienar Fleet Systems’ Starscream-9 Ion Drive
Type: Military ion engine
Cost: 500,000 credits plus installation costs
Weight: 24 metric tons
Availability: X
Game   Notes:  The   Starscream-9   is   a   military   ion   drive,   originally 
designed for use in starfighters. They are available (for monstrous 
costs) on the black market.

They   have   a   Space   rating   of   12   (atmosphere   of   450;   1,300 
kmh). Possession of such a drive is a serious infraction in Imperial 
space. Because of the cutting edge technology in this drive, double 
all   difficulties   for   modifying   this   drive   and   double   all  modifiers 
when rolling for mishaps.

 SOROSUUB BOAV ION DRIVE

Model: SoroSuub Boav Ion Drive
Type: Commercial propulsion system
Cost: 10,000 plus installation costs
Weight: 10 metric tons
Availability: 2
Game Notes: Space rating of 4. Technicians installing a Boav unit will 
face an increase of one difficulty level in their  space transports  
repair roll.

 INCOM STARSLINGER ION DRIVE

Model: Incom Starslinger Ion Drive
Type: Commercial propulsion system
Cost: 20,000 plus installation costs
Weight: 12 metric tons
Availability: F
Game Notes: Space rating of 6. Requires a 500 credits Imperial per­
mit. Double all difficulties for modifying this drive and double all 
modifiers when rolling for mishaps beyond a +1 modification.

 CORELLIAN EVADER-GT ION DRIVE

Model: Corellian Evader-GT Ion Drive
Type: Commercial propulsion system
Cost: 50,000 plus installation costs
Weight: 16 metric tons
Availability: F
Game Notes:  The Evader-GT Ion Drive is a scaled-down version of a 
military   ion   drive.   They   are   available   on   the   open   market,   but 
require a 5,000 credit Imperial permit to legally possess. They give 
a vessel a Space rating of 8. Double all difficulties for modifying 
this drive and double ail modifiers when rolling for mishaps beyond 
a +1 modification.

 BOSHAA-C’HI ION DRIVE

Model: Kuat Drive Yards’ Boshaa-C’hi Ion Drive
Type: Military ion engine
Cost: 100,000 plus installation costs
Weight: 18 metric tons
Availability: X
Game Notes:  The Boshaa is an older model of a military ion drive. 
originally designed for use in starfighters. They are available on the 
black market. They give a vessel a Space rating of 10. Possession of 
such a drive is a serious infraction in Imperial space. Double ail dif­
ficulties  for modifying  this  drive   and double  all  modifiers  when 
rolling for mishaps.

OUR WORRIES ARE OVER...

When   characters   install   replacement   systems,   they’ll 
probably breathe a sigh of relief (especially if they’re used 
to modified systems giving them problems). And, in gener­
al, they’ll have nothing to worry about.

But... Technology isn’t perfect. And there is always the 
chance that when a new system is put into a ship, maybe 
the mechanics  didn’t  quite get  everything  right. Or the 
characters bought a faulty system. Machines break, com­
puters have glitches, and parts from one manufacturer (or 
model line) may not be compatible with parts from anoth­
er. As a gamemaster, don’t rely on this possibility to make 
your   adventures   more   interesting,   but   don’t   neglect   it 
either.

 BAFFLED DRIVE

Model: Rendili StarDrive WhisperThrust
Type: Baffled realspace drive
Scale: Starfighter
Cost: 100,000 minimum on the black market
Weight: 20 metric tons; extra tank: 2 metric tons
Availability: 4, X
Game Notes:  The Whisper is a highly illegal baffled realspace drive 
used on stealthy military starships. The Whisper allows a ship to 
move in space while running silent at a base speed of 2. Cautious 
movement is no more detectable than drifting; Cruise movement 
adds +5 to the sensor operator’s roll; High Speed adds +10; All-Out 
movement adds +15. A WhisperThrust engine has a limited storage 
capacity for the necessary gases to move: enough to move 100 
spacial  units. An  extra  or  replacement   tank  costs  7,000  credits. 
Synthesizing the necessary fuel requires 120 liters of spin-sealed 
tibanna gas and 2 kilos of high-grade hyperbarides and a standard 
power   generator.   The   fuel   refining   process   takes   roughly   three 
standard days.

REPLACEMENT HYPERDRIVES

There   are   many   different   brands   and   types   of   hyperdrives 
that characters can choose to install in their vessels. Here are 
some examples.

In game terms, the differences between hyperdrives are the 
hyperdrive multipliers, and their compatibility; any hyperdrive 
can be installed in any freighter with the room for the upgrade, 
but depending on brand and type, it may be more difficult to 
install.

It is possible to remove the back-up hyperdrive from a space 
transport and sell it, thereby gaining additional cargo capacity 
and a bit of extra cash (however, any hyperdrive with a multipli­
er of ×5 or more isn’t worth that much). Of course, the passen­
gers and crew of the freighter are in a very bad situation if the 
main drive conks out in transit...

×1/2 Hyperdrives

This type of drive is not commercially available for freighters 
— they must be custom built (and are extremely prone to fail­
ure). Some stolen models cost as much as 90,000 credits on the 
black market — if they can be found at all. These hyperdrives are 
very illegal.

The installation cost is around 15,000 credits, with the aver­
age unit weighing in around 20 tons. A typical custom hyper­
drive   job   can   cost   between   50,000   and   90,000   credits, 
depending on the quality of the parts, the cost of the hyperdrive 
being modified, and the quality of  work. Finding a mechanic 
who’s willing to build such a drive is another matter entirely.

×1 Hyperdrives

This level of hyperdrive is probably the fastest type of star 
drive that the average ship will have, unless the owner is fortu­
nate enough to locate a military hyperdrive (and can afford the 
enormous cost of installing it). They are legal, but customs offi­
cials will probably make life difficult on anyone with a ship that 
fast (“Why do you need something that fast... if I didn’t know 
better, I’d say you were probably a smuggler...”).

Operating a vessel rated for this speed without the proper 
documentation   (and   the   5,000   credit   permit)   is   punishable 
under law, and penalties include stiff fines and possible suspen­
sion of the operator’s flight license.

 ×1 HYPERDRIVE

Model: SoroSuub Griffyn-XTG Lightspeed Unit
Type: Commercial hyperdrive
Cost: 15,000 plus installation costs
Weight: 18 metric tons
Availability: F
Game   Notes:  Any   non-SoroSuub   vessels   attempting   to   install   this 
type of drive suffer an increase of one difficulty level during the 
attempt.

×2 Hyperdrives

This is arguably the most common speed hyperdrive found 
aboard starships. It is reliable, cheap (comparative1y)and is fast 
enough to get a ship from point A to point B within a reason­
able time.

 ×2 HYPERDRIVE

Model: Corellian Avatar-10
Type: Commercial propulsion system
Cost: 10,000 plus installation costs
Weight: 15 metric tons
Availability: 2
Game   Notes:  Space   transports   repair  rolls   to   install   an   Avatar-10 

receive a +1D bonus.

×3, ×4, and ×5 Hyperdrives

At this level, the costs for hyperdrives decrease drastically; 
generally. those who can afford it use this class of drive for a 
backup rather than a main drive. Any ship that relies on a ×3 or 
slower hyperdrive for main propulsion is risking great delays in 
traveling their shipping routes.

 ×3 HYPERDRIVE

Model: Incom Horizon-Hopper Light Stardrive
Type: Commercial propulsion system
Cost: 7,000 plus installation costs
Weight: 12 metric tons
Availability: 2

 ×4 HYPERDRIVE

Model: Rendili StarDrive’s ATX-5
Type: Commercial propulsion system
Cost: 4,000 plus installation costs
Weight: 10 metric tons
Availability: 1

 ×5 HYPERDRIVE

Model: Sienar Fleet Systems Lifesaver 1000 Reserve Hyperdrive
Type: Commercial propulsion system
Cost: 2,500 plus installation costs
Weight: 8 metric tons
Availability: 1
Game  Notes:  The   Lifesaver 100  is   only  recommended  as   a  backup 

hyperdrive and must be overhauled after each use.

SHIELDS

Shields are essential to protect your ship’s integrity in a fight. 
The shields listed below combine the powers of both  particle 
and ray/energy shields, and thus  are equally effective against 
both   lasers   and   missiles.   Shields   are   almost   impossible   to 
improve beyond their initial strength.

 DEFLECTOR SHIELDS

Model: Standard Deflector Shields
Type: Particle & ray/energy shields
Scale: Starfighter
Shield Code
1D
2D
3D

Cost
4,000
10,000
20,000

Weight (in tons)
6
8
10

WEAPONRY

Most of the weapons below require a fee and an Imperial or 
Republic permit to operate legally. The usual cost of the fee is 
30 percent of the purchase price.

To get a permit through normal channels, the player charac­
ter must apply at an Imperial or Republic Space Control office. 
He makes an opposed  con  or  bureaucracy  roll, his skill against 
the   damage   code   of   the   weapon   (modified   by   local   circum­
stances and the character’s clean record — or lack thereof).

Success indicates that the captain has been granted permis­
sion to equip the ship with the indicated weapon type. A sepa­
rate roll must be made for each weapon mounted on his ship. 
Bribery can, of  course,  modify  the  difficulty of  acquiring the 
permit.

Blaster cannon:  A relatively weak blaster, usually mounted 

on lightly armed vessels.

Laser cannon and heavy laser cannon: A stronger version of 

the blaster cannon.

Turbolaser:  A   heavy   ship-mounted   laser,   usually   mounted 
only on larger ships. A turbolaser can fire only every other com­
bat round (simply because it has been jury-rigged to ship). It is 
usually illegal to have a turbolaser mounted on a private vessel.

Ion cannon: An ion cannon does not destroy an enemy ves­
sel; rather it temporarily disables its electronics. Make a normal 
attack   roll,   but   instead   of   inflicting   damage,   the   opponent’s 
equipment is ionized.

Proton torpedoes:  A missile containing a proton-scattering 

energy warhead. Torpedoes have no appreciable weight.

Concussion missiles: These missiles contain an armor-pierc­
ing warhead and a compact energy pack that detonates upon 
impact. Missiles have no appreciable weight.

The   “Weapon   Summary”   chart   has   some   sample   starship 

weapons.

Linked Weapons

Most weapons are designed to be fired individually, from the 
captain’s   or   weapons   officer’s   station.   Up   to   three   identical 
weapons can be linked to fire at the same target simultaneously. 

WEAPON SUMMARY

Weapon
Taim & Bak Kd-3 Light Blaster Cannon
Kuat Vonak Light Laser Cannon
Arakyd Tomral Heavy Laser Cannon
lncom W-34t Turbolaser*
Comar f-2 Light Ion Cannon
Comar f-4 Medium Ion Cannon
Comar f-9 Heavy Ion Cannon
Arakyd Hi-fex Proton Torpedo Launcher (includes 12-torpedo rack)
Replacement Torpedo
Arakyd Morne-3 Concussion Missile Launcher (includes 10-missile rack)
Replacement Missile

* This weapon is illegal.
** Damage is starfighter-scale

Fire
Control
1D
2D
2D
3D
1D
2D
4D
2D
—
1D
—

Dam.**
1D
2D
5D
7D
2D
3D
4D
9D
—
8D
—

Cost
1,000
1,500
3,000
9,000
1,000
1,500
3,000
2,500
800
3,500
500

Weight
(in tons)
1
2
4
5
0.5
1
2
2
—
3
—

The computer linkage for this operation costs around 100 credits 
per weapon.

For  a  weapon  link to have  any  useful  value, the  weapons 
must have identical damage codes. Linking two weapons adds 
+1D to the damage code, while linking three weapons adds +2D 
to the damage code.

Example: The owner of a tramp freighter wishes to 
link two light laser cannons, each with a damage code 
of 2D. By linking them together, their new damage is 
3D. If he linked a third light laser cannon to the pair, 
the weapon’s new damage would be 4D.

Similarly, if a weapon can be fired from two different loca­
tions, say, the weapon mount and the pilot’s station, the addi­
tional linkage costs 100 credits per weapon. This is considered a 
+1 modification on the mishap charts.

COMPUTERS AND SENSORS

The necessity of sensor apparatus is obvious to most star-pi­
lots;  without  proper   navigational   data,   it   is   easy   to  wind   up 
smashing   into   an   asteroid,   sun,   other   spaceship,   and   so   on. 
Space may be big, but in a number of areas, space is extremely 
crowded.

The various sensors listed below are all described earlier in 
this   chapter.   Note   that   many   of   the   sensors   below   have   no 
appreciable weight.

Electro-Photo Receptors (EPR’s): 300 credits.

Full Spectrum Transceivers (FST’s): 500 credits.

Dedicated Energy Receptors (DER’s): 600 credits.

Life-Form Indicators (LFl’s): 800 credits

Sensor Jammer

A   special   signal   generator   that   floods   an   area   with   static 
which blinds all sensors, but broadcasts the general location of 
the ship doing the jamming. Costs begin at 1,500 credits and the 
systems weigh at least 1 ton. They normally add to the difficulty 
to identify a ship, but make it easier to detect a ship (see the 
sensors rules).

 SENSOR JAMMING HARDWARE

Model: Fabritech NightBlind 472
Type: Sensor jamming device
Cost: 4,000 credits plus installation costs
Weight: I metric ton
Availability: X
Game Notes: +1D to identify, but −2D to 

detect.

Sensor Decoys

A sensor decoy sends out electromagnet­
ic and holo signals exactly identical to the 
ship.  They  can   be  ejected  with   a  pre-pro­
grammed course and normally have a maxi­
mum sublight speed of 5. They are relatively 
effective   at   distance,   but   easily   seen 
through   when   enemy   sensors   are   set   on 
focus mode. Sensor decoys can only be used 
once (their engines burn out after use).

In game terms, sensor decoys are easily detectable. However, 
they add a die modifier (+1D, +2D, etc.) to the difficulty of the 
enemy   sensor   operator   to  determine   which   is   the  decoy   and 
which is the real ship.

 SENSOR DECOYS

Model: Corellian Trickster Decoys
Type: Starship countermeasures system
Cost: 2,000 credits plus installation costs
Weight: 2 metric tons
Availability: F
Game Notes: Trickster Drones add +2D to the difficulty to determine 
which sensor reading is the ship and which is the decoy. Possession 
of this type of countermeasure requires official certification.

Cloaking Device

To date, there is no working cloaking device known in Imperi­
al space. The discovery of a working cloaking shield would be 
worth   hundreds   of   millions   of   credits   for   the   sentient   lucky 
enough  to find or construct one. Of course, for that kind of 
money,   just   about   every   major   crimelord,   smuggler,   bounty 
hunter, government and scientist would kill to obtain it.

MISCELLANEOUS

Equipping the cargo hold to hold an X-wing fighter, self-de­
struct   mechanisms,   space-mine   ejectors,   false   beacons   or 
transponders,   detachable   sections...   there   is   always   a   chance 
that players will come up with modifications that have not been 
anticipated by the gamemaster. Gamemasters should decide the 
costs and the weight of such modifications, using the examples 
below as a guide. A simple rule of thumb: if it is technically 
complex, it costs a bundle.

What follows are some unusual systems characters can pur­

chase.

Fuel Converters

Fuel  converters  allow  the captain  to  avoid the expense of 
paying  refueling  or   power   cell   replacement   fees.   Instead,   the 
captain can buy certain materials (normally waste material) in 
bulk and put it into the fuel converter.

Solid Fuel Converter

Automatic Cargo Jettisoning

Converts virtually any matter into fuel cell power. A ship can 
refuel on bulky, low energy materials — oxygen, water, plastics, 
cellulose (wood), waste — or heavy metals and other high ener­
gy materials. The ship will be able to halve its “restocking” fee at 
starports, but the captain will have to personally arrange for 
fuel supplies elsewhere.

A wonderful way to avoid an official fine, as well as a quick  
way to get in trouble with your loan shark. This device will jetti­
son whatever portion of your cargo you wish, whether it be in 
the secret compartment or in the main bay. Can be triggered by 
either a dead-man switch or by command from the ship’s com­
puter.

Cost: 8,000 credits. Weight: 5 tons.

Cost: 1,000 credits. Weight: 1 ton.

Scoops

Passenger Conversion

Some   ships   (scouts,   especially)   are   equipped   with   scoops, 
allowing them to dip into a planet’s atmosphere or seas to steal 
natural resources with which to recharge their power cells.

To   carry   additional   passengers,   cargo   hold   space   must   be 

converted to passenger space.

Cost: 400 credits per additional passenger capacity. Weight: 

Cost: 15,000 credits. Weight: 15 tons.

10 tons per person.

Solar Converters

Ships   may   also   be   equipped   with   solar   converters:   huge, 

molecule-thick solar-absorbent sails.

In-system, these will recharge a ship’s systems in about 15 
days, while out-system it takes about 60 days to fully recharge 
the ship’s power cells.

Cost: 12,000 credits. Weight: 10 tons.

Tractor Beam

A   beam   capable   of   pulling   a   smaller   vessel   closer   to   the 
freighter (if the freighter is smaller, it is drawn toward the other 
ship instead). See page Space Travel & Combat for details. Fire 
control is 2D, damage is 2D.

Cost: 8,000 credits. Weight: 15 tons.

Secret Cargo Compartments

Up to three people can fit in each ton of space in a secret  
compartment   (secret  compartments   require   a   lot   of   space   to 
even attempt to conceal).

If more than 20 percent of a ship’s cargo space is taken up by 
secret compartments, customs officials are likely to become sus­
picious merely on grounds of simple mathematics: “You’re trying 
to tell me that a ship this size has capacity for only 60 tons of 
cargo? What kind of fool do you take me for, smuggler?”

The cost for secret compartments depends upon how secret 

they are. There are three grades of compartments:

Concealed.  Requires   a   Difficult  Perception/search  roll   to 

A cheaper way to go is to put in a primitive life support sys­
tem and have the passengers sleep on the floor. This costs 30 
credits per person  and weighs  only one ton per person. It  is, 
however, quite illegal.

Refrigeration Equipment

Certain special cargoes require precise temperature control.
Cost:  100 credits per ton converted.  Weight:  1 ton per 20 

tons converted.

Replacement Navigation Computer

Cost: 2,000 credits.

Escape Equipment

Enough escape pods for each crewmember and passenger on 
board a ship is required by Imperial law (military vessels are, of 
course, exempt from this rule). A standard freighter-sized escape 
pod seats eight passengers and has food and oxygen for two 
weeks.

Cost: 1,200 credits. Weight: 5 tons.

Environmental Converters

With this device installed, the captain is able to provide com­
fortable   environs   for   many   different   species   throughout   the 
ship, or in one cabin or the cargo hold.
Cost: 4,000 credits. Weight: 4 tons.

locate; a scanner will detect it immediately.
Cost: 200 credits per ton of cargo to be 
hidden. Weight: 5 tons from cargo capaci­
ty for 1 ton of cargo space.

Hidden.  Requires   a   Very   Difficult  Per­
ception/search  roll   to   locate   with   the 
naked eye; a scanner will find it on a Mod­
erate Perception/search roll.

Cost: 400credits per ton of cargo to be 
hidden.  Weight:  5 tons of cargo capacity 
for 1 ton of cargo space.

Scanner Resistant. Requires a Very Dif­
ficult  Perception/   search  roll   to   locate, 
does not show up on scanners at all.

Cost:  1,000 credits per ton of cargo to 
be hidden. Weight: 5 tons of cargo capaci­
ty for 1 ton of cargo space.

CHAPTER TWENTY-TWO

22 PLANETS

Many are the worlds on which drama and danger can be  
found... here you’ll learn about a handful, but your journeys  
will lead to many other strange and exotic places.

PLANETS THE STAR WARS WAY

The  Star Wars  universe is an exciting place to live and work. Sure, there are places 
where nothing much happens, but players aren’t going to tarry in them! No, the name of 
the game is adventure, and the worlds that you are going to want to emphasize in your  
adventures   are   the   vibrant,   exotic  ones   where   something   interesting   and  dangerous   is 
bound to happen.

World design is an important part of establishing setting, because most adventures take 
place on planetary locations — from sprawling urban jungles and wild badlands to deep 
underwater canyons. Taking some time to make your worlds interesting and unique can 
yield great rewards in gameplay.

It isn’t necessary to get all of the exact scientific details down when you are designing 
your worlds, by the way. Sure, make sure water flows downhill, and that gravity works, but 
don’t worry too much about getting the geology, biology, and astronomy just so. Under the 
right circumstances, almost anything can conceivably exist. You should focus on creating 
the world — and let someone else worry about exactly how everything works.

MAKING YOUR WORLDS MEMORABLE

In world design, it is important to give your worlds individuality 
and a character all their own. If you do not give the players a 
unique “handle” on each world (a way for them to categorize a 
world in their minds, e.g. the place where people harvest giant 
mushrooms   and   ride   around   on   giant   bugs),   the   worlds   will 
gradually blend together into a hazy morass of basic types: the 
desert world, the Imperial city world, the big polluted CSA fac­
tory world, and so on.

Worlds are sort of like gamemaster characters that way. Just 
as you give your supporting characters some distinguish­
ing   characteristics   which   separate   them   from   the 
other gamemaster characters, try to make each world 
a distinct place with its own feel and flavor.

A simple way you can give each world a unique charac­
ter   is   to   give   it   some   exotic   attributes.   Exotic 
planets   appeal   to   the   players’   sense   of 
escapism and curiosity — and remind them 
that the Star Wars universe isn’t like the one 
they know.

Look   to   the   movies   for   your   models. 
Tatooine, meant to be a backwater world 
where   nothing   much   happens,  is   still   an 
exotic   location   to   us,   filled   with   interesting 
alien societies, a water-based economy, and a futuristic 
yet run-down city. Bespin is a gas giant which fea­
tures a great majestic city floating in the upper levels 
of its vibrant and beautiful atmosphere.

EXOTIC ELEMENTS

Making a world exotic can be as simple as tweaking some  
geological features. Place a world in a binary or trinary star sys­
tem, or give it an atmosphere so dangerous that humans have to 
wear filter masks to walk outside. You might set an adventure 
on a young world subject to constant earthquakes and volcanic 
activity, or on an ancient, arid planet orbiting a huge red star. 
But you can get more fancy than that if you like.

Often, you can get away with establishing a single interesting 
focus to a world, and spin everything else off from that. There 
isn’t   anything   particularly   special   about   the   forests   of   Endor, 
after   all.   But   the   dramatic   focal   points   —   the   stark   Imperial 
landing pad and shield generator dish, and the partially com­
pleted   Death   Star   hanging   in   the   sky   —   effectively   establish 
Endor as a unique location.

You   can  focus   on   culture,  society,  and  people   to  establish 
character.  Maybe   the   locals   wear  many  layers   of  scarves   and 
feathers, and only those dressed likewise may conduct business. 
Or perhaps the citizens are language purists, and treat everyone 
who does not use their peculiar inverted word order like unedu ­
cated idiots.

Some more examples:

• Those who do not cover their faces are shunned and regarded 
with disgust.

•   All   non-citizens   must   wear   caps   to   distinguish   themselves 
from the privileged locals, who are accorded more privileges. 

• Only females (of all species) can speak in public.

• Wearing the color orange is reserved for the exalted class (this 
one is fun to pull on Rebel pilots).

• No one may openly display a weapon.

Obviously, these examples will impact the characters’ lives in 
some major or minor way. This isn’t all bad. The players are sure 
to remember the world where only females can speak in public 
if their characters landed there for badly needed repairs — and 
there   are   no   female   crew   members!   And   making   each   world 
memorable and distinct is, after all, the whole point.

But   there   is   no   need   to   get   into   the   characters’   faces   to 
establish world character. Societal and cultural examples tend to 
do that, but you can get more into physical aspects of places 
and  things,  which  provide  atmosphere without  impacting the 
characters’ lives unduly. And remember to hit that “wow” button 
occasionally!

Some “place” examples:

• Structures that are out of the ordinary — maybe people live 
and work in the discarded shells of giant insects, or in great hol ­
lowed-out cacti, or in living buildings.

• Settings unique to the world, like the dramatic singing spires  
of the Cathedral of Winds on Vortex, or the great Ithorian ships 
which cruise over the jungles of Ithor.

• Underwater cities.

Some “thing” examples:

• Doors dilate open and shut.

• Droids are plated with strong ceramics instead of metals and 
plastics.

• Flowers are prominently displayed everywhere imaginable.

• People preserve their dead relatives in a clear resin, and place 
them in the yard to ward off evil.

As you can see, some examples are more far out than others. 
But all of them help establish the character and uniqueness of 
the world.

THUMBNAIL
WORLD CREATION

You won’t always need a fully fleshed out world for the char­
acters to visit. Sometimes, you only need a world to serve as a 
backdrop for a scene or two, and then the characters are off on 
other adventures. Maybe you need a setting where the charac­
ters can pick up their contact, or maybe the characters need a 
place to get their spaceship repaired. In cases like these, you can 
use the “thumbnail” method of creating planets.

The thumbnail method is a “quick and dirty” way of creating 
planets — use it when you won’t be spending a lot of time on a 
world. There aren’t any particular stats or rules associated with 
the thumbnail method. Your basic goal is to develop the world 
just enough to serve the demands of your adventure, and flesh  
it out just enough to give the characters a taste of the character 
of the world. The thumbnail method is more an extension of 
adventure design than campaign design, since you are using it 
to serve the needs of a specific adventure rather than the needs 
of the overall campaign.

There are only a few steps in thumbnail world creation:

• Determine the function of the planet:  Not necessarily what 
role the planet has in intergalactic trade, but what role it plays 
in your plot. Is it where the characters are to meet someone? 
Witness  something?   Get into a  fight?   Pick  up a   hard-to-find 
engine   part?   Analyzing   what   the   planet   needs   to   provide   to 
advance the plot gives you the information you need to move to 
the next step.

• Develop adventure locations:  You don’t need to develop an 
entire global economy and political system if the characters are 
only going to land in a provincial border town, spend the night, 
and leave the next morning. Develop the areas you know the 
characters will visit, and focus on developing a unique feel for 
those locations. Good visual images are important here.

•   Establish   first   impressions:  What   characters   might   notice 
right away: that the spaceport is on a giant seashell; that the air 
smells of sulfur (or can’t be breathed without a mask); that the 
star bathes the entire landscape in a blue light; that there are  
lots of palm trees and dusky brown penguin-like animals about; 
and so on. Again, these aspects of the world will likely be local 
to the specific area the characters are visiting; the penguins, for 
example, might not live in other areas of their world.

•   Develop   global   aspects:  Summarize  a few  exotic  elements 
which apply to the world in general. You can use this step to 
include interesting ideas you haven’t yet developed, such as cul­
tural mores and traditions, and unique geological features.

CAPSULE WORLD CREATION

You won’t always just want a world for a walk-on appear­
ance. Often, the world you intend to create will be visited many 
times, or serve as a  base of operations. If you are running a 
campaign, you will likely want to develop a number of detailed 
planets that the characters will frequent.

The capsule world creation method is more structured and 
formal than the thumbnail method, and focuses more on the 
statistics of the world (we call it the capsule method because it 
conforms to the capsule format the roleplaying game uses to 
portray planets). You are, essentially, starting with the thumbnail 
method, and taking it a few steps further.

The gamemaster can use the die charts found in this chapter 
to   randomly   generate   worlds   from   scratch.   Alternately,   the 
gamemaster can use this rules section as a merely inspirational 
tool, using the descriptions and ideas herein as a baseline from  
which   a   comprehensive,   detailed   world   emerges.   The   second 
method takes more time and consideration, but is also more sat­
isfying.

If randomly generating the world, the gamemaster will need 
several six-sided dice, a pencil, and some paper to keep a log for 
the planet. It is also advisable to have a notebook set aside to 
record the ideas that come to mind.

Keeping it Space Opera

When   dealing  with   a  science   fiction   roleplaying  game,   it’s 
very easy to spend too much time designing one planet. Alter 
all, from our own experience, our home world is incredibly intri­
cate and immensely interesting and the  Star Wars  galaxy has 
millions of stars with worlds equally diverse and fantastic.

However, the nature of  Star Wars  necessitates  hopping to 
two, three, four or even more new planets in the course of an 
adventure. This system is designed to help gamemasters gener­
ate the most important and interesting details of a new planet, 
and makes a number of assumptions:

• The gamemaster will only want to send players to interesting 
planets and systems. The odds of this game system are heavily

weighted toward generating advanced or colonized planets. The 
civilizations of the Star Wars universe have been spacefaring for 
so many centuries that most advanced civilizations (and a lot of  
primitive   ones   as   well)   have   been   discovered   and   assimilated 
into galactic culture.

• There are isolated sections of the galaxy that offer undiscov­
ered   civilizations   and   other   challenges,   and  they   can   also   be 
generated with this system. They can exist for whatever reason: 
they are far out on the end of a spiral arm; or, they are difficult 
to get to because they are surrounded by gas clouds, near rogue 
planets or subjected to huge ion storms.

• Only the system’s planet of prime importance is fleshed out 
here. Other worlds can be developed independently, but virtually 
everything of interest and value is on the prime world.

• This system results in “finished concept” worlds, and doesn’t 
spend much time explaining how a particular planet got a cer­
tain way; it just is. An explanation of the culture and history 
takes a few minutes to formulate, but the results are worth it.

• Completely random rolls on these charts may generate seem­
ingly   contradictory   results.   The   gamemaster   always   has   the 
option of ignoring results that are unsuitable. However, knowing 
the diversity to be found in the Star Wars galaxy, virtually any 
result is explainable.

• This system generalizes the type of terrain found on the plan­
ets. While few worlds have uniform terrain everywhere, this sys­
tem gives one or two dominant terrain types so the gamemaster 
can quickly sum up the planet.

•   Optional   modifiers   listed   after   some   results   are   just   that: 
optional. The gamemaster has every right to fudge die rolls (or 
just arbitrarily decide upon a result). This system is only a tool 
for the gamemaster to create fun worlds; the gamemaster need 
not be subservient to a series of charts. All modifiers are cumu­
lative.

•  If  an  incompatible  condition  result  is  rolled, discard  it  and 
select a compatible result.

PLANET FUNCTION

Since Star Wars is space opera, and leans heavily toward 
action and strong story telling, the most important aspect 
to players is what can be found or explored on the planet. 
The following results give some indication as to what types 
of   industries   and   activities   are   common   on   a   particular 
planet. For greater diversity, the gamemaster may roll on 
this chart multiple times.

To determine the planet function, roll two six sided dice. 
Read each number separately (this is a six-sided percentile 
system; do not add them together for a total). This gener­
ates totals between 11 and 66. It is best to use two differ­
ent  color dice  (say, red  and  blue),  reading  one color  die 
before the other. For example, if you’re reading the red die 
first, and you roll a “3” on the red die and a “2” on the blue  
die, your roll is a “32” (Homeworld planet).

11: Abandoned Colony. This is a planet that was settled by 
another planet, a company or some other wealthy institu­
tion. Then, for some reason, the colony was left behind: the 
homeworld could have been struck by plague or war, or the 
company could have run out of money. The planet might 
have been evacuated (only leaving ruins), or supply ships 
just never arrived, in which case the colonists were on their 
own: they may have devolved into barbarism and anarchy.

12:   Academic.  Educational   institutions   are   what   is   most 
important to the economy of this planet. Academic worlds 
typically have many universities and colleges, which may be 
private, corporate or state run.

Options for low tech level worlds are varied: the univer­
sity was purposefully established to remove students from 
the temptations of modern comforts. Or, the natives may 
have had some contact with free-traders, and have com­
mitted all of their efforts to unlocking the secrets of mod­
ern technology.

D6%
11
12

13

14-21

22
23

24
25-26

31
32-33
34
35-41

42

43-46

51-55
56
61

62-63
64-66

Result
Abandoned Colony
Academic

Optional Modifiers: +1 Starport, +1 Tech Level

Administrative/Government

Optional Modifiers: +1 Starport, +1 Tech Level

Agriculture

Incompatible Conditions: Asteroid Belt, Artificial 
Planet Type; Barren Terrain

Colony
Disaster

Optional Modifiers: −3 Starport (if recent calamity), 
−2 Tech Level; +3 Atmosphere

Entertainment
Exploration

Optional Modifiers: −2 Starport, −2 Tech Level

Hidden Base
Homeworld
Luxury Goods
Manufacturing/Processing

Optional Modifiers: Mid Tech Planets: +2 Starport; 
+2 Tech Level. High Tech Planets: +3 Starport; +4 
Tech Level

Military

Optional Modifiers: +3 Starport; +2 Tech Level

Mining

Optional Modifiers: +2 Starport; +1 Tech Level

Natural Resources
Research
Service

Optional Modifiers: + 1 Starport; +2 Tech Level

Subsistence
Trade

Optional Modifiers: +3 Starport; +2 Tech Level

This result doesn’t necessarily mean academic work towards a 
degree.  Trade   schools,  institutions   dedicated   to  unlocking  the 
secrets of the Force (these will always be well hidden since the 
Emperor has made it a priority to kill Force users), and survival 
schools are possible options.

13:  Administrative/Government.  This world is bureaucracy at 
its largest. The main industry is the orderly (or at least managed) 
operation of a government, business, or other large institution. 
Imperial sector capitals often qualify for this designation, but 
the   homeworlds   of   major,   galaxy-spanning   corporations   and 
institutions such as BoSS (Bureaus of Ships and Services) may 
also be considered administrative in nature. Low tech level plan­
ets   could  also  be  administrative,  especially  if  the  economy  is 
directed entirely by the government.

Optional Modifiers: + 1 Starport; +1 Tech Level

14-21: Agriculture.  This planet is dedicated to the production 
of food. The types of products can include grains, vegetables, 
fruits,  meats,  vitamins,  dietary supplements,  and  water.  Many 
ocean planets also rely on agriculture, through fishing or algae 
and vitamin farms.

Incompatible   Conditions:  Asteroid   Belt,   Artificial   Planet 

Type; Barren Terrain

22: Colony.  This planet has been established and sponsored by 
another,   more   developed   planet   or   corporation.   Colonies   are 
generally dependent upon the sponsor for supplies, and typically 
are subservient to its dictates. Colony worlds aren’t independent 
entities, although there may be a separatist movement. Colony 
planets generally produce goods only for consumption by the 
sponsor, and thus are often prevented from developing a self-
sufficient   economy   or   acquiring   significant   wealth.   Many 
colonies are devoted to agriculture and mining.

23:   Disaster.  Disaster planets  have gone through  cataclysmic 
changes that have dramatically altered the world’s history. The 
event   could   have   been   a   war   that   used   atomic   weapons,   a 
plague,   an   industrial   accident,   a   collision   with   a   large   stellar 
body (such as an asteroid) or a dramatic change in the nature of 
the system’s star (such  as when stars balloon into red giants, 
incinerating all of the inner planets and drastically changing the 
climate of the surviving worlds).

The disaster could have occurred just a few years ago (gener­
ally making the world very dangerous), or it could have hap­
pened decades or eons ago (in which case the danger from the 
actual  disaster may have passed,  but  the aftermath  could be 
devastating).

Optional Modifiers: (If recent calamity) −3 Starport; −2 Tech 

Level; +3 Atmosphere

24:   Entertainment.  This   planet’s   business   is   show   business. 
Holovids, musical groups and the businesses that distribute their 
works to the general public are dominant here. Some planets 
specialize in sporting events (such as swoop races), amusement 
parks, gambling or tourism.

25-26: Exploration.  This planet, and the whole system for that 
matter, has seldom been visited, until now, when the characters 
have arrived. Exploration planets tend to have primitive tech­
nology levels (if there are even sentient species). There are few 
urban areas, with the emphasis on dangerous wilderness. Lost 
artifacts from past ages may be on these planets, or there may 
simply be wandering tribes  of aliens  who are eager to trade. 
These planets may be rich in natural resources.

There may be some hint of galactic civilization in these sys­
tems, or on the planet in question perhaps a secretive trader has 
retired here, or fugitives may be hiding from the Empire. These 
locales are excellent for hidden bases, or if near important trade 
routes, may be a convenient stopover for independent traders.

Optional Modifiers: −2 Starport; −2 Tech Level

31: Hidden Base.  There is a base on this planet that someone 
wants to keep a secret. This immediately sets up a conflict for 
the   characters,   since   that   someone   will   probably   hunt   them 
down to prevent anyone else from finding out about the base.

Alliance and pirate bases are logical choices. Other options 
may include the Imperial military or corporate interests (possibly 
a weapons or biological engineering research facility). Wealthy 
individuals may have a private hideaway.

32-33: Homeworld. This result means the planet is a homeworld 
for an established alien species. It could be Calamari (home of 
the Mon Calamari and the Quarren), Sullust (home of the Sul­
lustans), or one of thousands of other homeworlds throughout 
the   galaxy.   Most   of   these   planets   have   modern   starports,   a 
sophisticated   trader   network   and   a   high   level   of   technology. 
Almost   all   homeworlds   of   atomic   tech   level   or   higher   have 
already been subdued by the Empire unless the characters are in 
unexplored regions of space.

34: Luxury Goods.  The planet produces luxury goods, such as 
liquor, finished gemstones (such as the Garnib crystals), spices, 
art or other goods. This planet may be self-sufficient, or may be 
devoted exclusively to producing the luxury good (which would 
requiring importing everything else).

35-41:   Manufacturing/Processing.  The   inhabitants   of   this 
planet devote most of their time to manufacturing goods. The 
goods generally fit into three distinct categories: low tech, mid 
tech, and high tech. These goods may be for consumption by the 
planet’s own residents, or they may be for export to other plan­
ets. They may be finished items, which are shipped directly to 
markets, or the planet may be an intermediary step, whereby 
the planet takes in raw materials from one planet, and then pro­
cesses the material so that it can be used in the production of a 
finished good, which is manufactured someplace else.

Low Tech:  Low tech  items are simple manufactured goods, 
such as handiwork, native crafts, furniture, basic medicines and 
woven cloth. The goods may be mass produced in factories, or 
may be made individually by skilled craftsmen.

Mid Tech:  More complex items are produced on this planet. 
Textiles, mechanical weaponry (projectile weapons), pharmaceu­
ticals,   paper   goods,   vehicles,   and   primitive   versions   of   high

tech goods, such as computers and plastics, can be manufac­
tured on these planets. Assembly line factories are frequently 
necessary to produce these goods.

locations. Sector capitals, planets that produce many different 
products and planets with wealthy populations are often trade 
planets.

High Tech:  Modern computers, blaster weapons, super-hard 
plastics and alloys like transparisteel, polymers, chemicals, bio-
engineered life forms, advanced bio-immune medicines, cyber­
netics, medical equipment, droids, vehicles and starships are all 
considered   high   tech   goods.   High   tech   goods   almost   always 
require advanced manufacturing methods.

Optional Modifiers:  Mid tech Planets:  +2 Starport; +2 Tech 

Level. High tech Planets: +3 Starport; +4 Tech Level

42: Military. This planet is an important Imperial military facili­
ty. It has one or several large bases. Sector capitals, planets near 
strategic trade routes, Imperial ship yards, and weapons manu­
facturing planets have huge military bases.

Optional Modifiers: +3 Starport; +2 Tech Level

43-46: Mining.  Mining planets depend upon the minerals and 
metals locked beneath the ground. These planets truly drive the 
Imperial   economy,   because   without   the   raw   materials   there 
would be no starships or vehicles. Blaster gases are also mined, 
but are taken from gas giants (such as the Tibanna gas mine on  
Bespin).

Optional Modifiers: +2 Starport; +1 Tech Level

51-55:   Natural   Resources.  These   planets   utilize   naturally 
occurring  resources   such   as   wood  (for  logging),  animal   skins, 
and glaciers (“harvested” for fresh water). Other products that 
could be harvested are raw materials for medicines and pharma­
ceuticals, and may be either plant or animal derived. This cate­
gory differs from agriculture because the products aren’t food.

56: Research. These planets are used for scientific and academic 
research. The world may have abundant resources, but the par­
ticular company or university may have an exclusive charter and 
is allowed to decide who develops the planet. Research may be 
for purely scientific or academic knowledge, but other planets 
are studied for new chemical compounds with practical applica­
tions.

61: Service. Service planets tend to have a multi-classed social 
system and great wealth. The exclusive higher classes have con­
trol over the wealth and resources, and the lower classes provide 
services and goods to the wealthier individuals. Service planets 
tend  toward  direct   sale  to  consumers,  or  may  be   devoted   to 
banking, legal services, medical services, or financial markets.

Optional Modifiers: +1 Starport; +2 Tech Level

62-63:   Subsistence.  A  planet   with   a   subsistence  economy   is 
working  hard   just   to   survive.   There   is   little   to  send  to  other 
worlds   to   generate   income,   and   if   the   planet   has   to   import 
many goods, the debt could be staggering. Another option is a 
planet that depended upon one product which has lost a great 
deal of Its value, and as a result, unemployment and poverty 
have grown dramatically in recent times.

64-66:   Trade.  Trade   planets   tend   to   be   the   most   active   and 
exciting planets in the Star Wars  galaxy. They are blessed with 
being on a good trade route, and as a result, everyone stops here 
to sell goods, make deals and purchase goods for resale at other

Optional Modifiers: +3 Starport; +2 Tech Level

GOVERNMENT

Government   is   the   means   by   which   a   society   determines 
what   is   permissible   and   what   is   forbidden.   Governments   can 
regulate business or corporate behavior, or even eliminate enti­
ties such as businesses. They can severely curb a citizen’s rights, 
or be very permissive.

The following results determine what type of government has 
been established on this planet, but it is up to the gamemaster 
to determine what the government in question believes  in — 
these categories simply detail by what means the government 
operates. If the gamemaster wishes  to generate more variety, 
roll on this chart multiple times to determine secondary govern­
ments or to determine a strong influence within the prime sys­
tem of government.

One thing to remember is that most planets in the galaxy 
during   the   Rebellion   Era   are   under   the   firm   control   of   the 
Empire.   This   chart   assumes   that   the   planet   is   under   Imperial 
control (with the notable exception of the Rebel Alliance result), 
although many primitive planets (feudal or stone tech  levels) 
have   been   left   alone   simply   because   they   offer   too   few 
resources or tax revenues to be worth the effort.

Most Imperial planets have been allowed to retain their tra­
ditional form of government, but all Imperial worlds have troops 
and equipment deployed to help the local population remember 
who is in control of the situation. Many, but not all, planets 
have Imperial governors who act as liaison between the Empire 
and the planetary government. On some worlds, the governor 
has assumed control (an action well within his or her authority). 
Particularly troublesome worlds are often subdued by Imperial 
military crackdowns.

To   determine   the   government   type,   use  the   six-sided   per­
centile system. This generates totals between 11 and 66. It is 
best to use two different color dice, reading one color die before 
the other. For example, if you’re reading the red die first, and

D6%
11
12
13-16
21-22
23-24
25
26-31
32
33-42
43-45
46-52
53
54
55
56
61
62
63-66

Result
Alliance/Federation
Anarchy
Competing States
Corporate Owned
Dictatorship
Family
Feudalism
Guild/Professional Organizations
Imperial Governor
Military
Monarchy
Organized Crime
Participatory Democracy
Rebel Alliance
Representative Democracy
Ruler by Selection/Rite
Theocracy
Tribal

and you roll a “5” on the red die and a “6” on the blue die, your 
roll is a “56” (Representative Democracy).

 Several   different   groups   (tribes, 
11:   Alliance/Federation.
nation-states, corporations or whatever else — you decide) have 
formed an alliance. The degree of cooperation and the vitality of 
the alliance differs from situation to situation. Typical purposes 
for alliance include an improved economy, mutual defense, or 
the arrival of a situation so compelling that the different groups 
can  put aside their problems  to accomplish “a greater good.” 
Betrayal is always a possibility, especially if there are other com­
peting alliances.

12: Anarchy.  Anarchists stand for the individual and his or her 
rights above all else, including government. Anarchist govern­
ments   could   conceivably   be   quite   elaborate,   but   would   exist 
only to insure that each individual has complete freedom.

Anarchism is commonly perceived as a lack of law and order, 

and on many planets, that is indeed the truth.

13-16: Competing States.  Several nation-states, tribes or cor­
porations are actively competing for control of the planet. The 
intensity and type of competition varies, and can range from 
economic competition to open war.

21-22: Corporate Owned.  This planet is owned by a corpora­
tion, trade guild or other large business interest. Most of these 
planets produce goods for use or resale by the parent corpora­
tion. Other corporate planets are for the pleasure and relaxation 
of the executives and employees — in essence, giant recreation 
planets. Residents are almost always employees of the corpora­
tion, and have strict guidelines and rules to follow, such as hav­
ing   to   pay   rent   on   corporate   housing,   or   being   required   to 
purchase goods only from corporate retailers. 

The corporation is allowed to do whatever it likes (with the 
agreement of the Empire, of course). Conditions on planets are 
widely   variable,   from   harsh   and   repressive   to   agreeable   and 
comfortable.

Optional Modifiers: +3 Spaceport; +2 Tech Level

23-24: Dictatorship.  Dictatorships are commanded by a single 
individual, such as a charismatic military officer, or an insane 
politician   who   will   execute   anyone.   Dictatorships   are   almost 
always   repressive   and   intolerant   of   divergent   political,   philo­
sophical and social views.

25: Family. The most important social organization on the plan­
et is the family. There are a variety of possible scenarios, includ­
ing   a   pre-tribal   state,   where   families   have   little   or   no 
technology and constantly engage in warfare with each other. 
At higher tech levels, a small group of elite families could con­
trol   the   government,   either   overtly   or   through   behind   the 
scenes manipulation of the government in power.

26-31:   Feudalism.  A multi-structured social system,  in  which 
important officials (nobles or royalty) are entrusted with a spe­
cific area of land. They must manage the territory, provide tax 
revenues to higher-level officials and make sure that the com­
mands of these higher-level officials are carried out.

32: Guild/Professional Organizations.  The planet is controlled 
by a guild dedicated to the advancement of a particular occupa­
tion or philosophy. Many trade planets are run by trade guilds. 

These guilds may also control certain portions of the govern­
ment, and subtly direct the kind of legislation and decisions that 
are made.

33-42: Imperial Governor. This is a planet where the designated 
Imperial governor has taken control, either due to civil unrest, 
sheer  ego, or belief that the previous  government was  inept, 
disloyal or unresponsive.

43-45:   Military.  Military   planets   are   controlled   by   either   the 
Imperial military or a local military organization. They tend to 
have governments which perpetuate only the military structure, 
ignoring   the   needs   and   desires   of   the   civilian   populations   — 
martial law is a way of life. Harsh, brutal crackdowns can occur 
with   only   minor   provocation.   Civil   rights   take   a   low   priority 
when compared to accomplishing government goals.

46-52:   Monarchy.  A   type   of   government   where   absolute 
authority is granted to one individual, often  called a king or 
queen. The leadership position is normally granted by heredity. 
Planets may have patriarchal (only male rulers) or matriarchal 
(only female rulers) societies.

53: Organized Crime. A planetary or galaxy-wide criminal orga­
nization   has   established   a   government   loyal   to   the   criminal 
leaders. Organized crime planets are typically run so that only 
those who are unswervingly loyal to the criminal organization 
receive   advancement   and   promotions;   opponents   are   simply 
eliminated.

Organized crime may also covertly control a government by 
bribing or blackmailing officials, or threatening their families. 
These governments are typically oppressive.

54: Participatory Democracy.  Citizens vote directly on Impor­
tant issues (some advanced planets have citizens vote on virtu­
ally every proposed bill).

55:   Rebel   Alliance.  A   government   that   supports   the   Rebel 
Alliance and its objectives. Few planets can risk openly support­
ing the Alliance (Alderaan is a painful example of what happens 
to openly rebellious worlds), but several planets secretly shuttle 
funds   to   Rebellion   coffers,   or   offer   safe   passage   for   Rebel 
agents, supplies and weaponry. Hidden  Rebel safe worlds also 
qualify for this designation.

56:   Representative Democracy.  Planets with a representative 
democracy have citizens choose officials, who are then charged 
with representing the “public interest.” These type of govern­
ments can experience radical shifts in goals and policy if the 
population   is   unsatisfied   with   performance   and   threatens   to 
remove the representatives from office.

61: Ruler by Selection/Rite.  The ruler is chosen by a series of 
trials,   physical,  mental   or   both.  While   these   governments   are 
often  found on  more primitive planets, advanced civilizations 
may use complex testing methods to determine who is most fit 
to govern a planet, nation or locality.

62: Theocracy.  A government run by a religious organization. 
Typically, the citizens are required to participate in certain reli­
gious rites and profess faith in the tenets of the religion. Theoc ­
racies may be highly tolerant of divergent views, but some are 
also quite repressive.

63-66: Tribal.  Tribal governments seldom control more than a 
small portion of the planet. Tribes are groups of many families 
who have banded together for mutual survival, or who share 
common beliefs. Tribes are often precursors to city-states and 
nation-state   governments,   but   many   highly   advanced   and 
sophisticated tribal governments are found on planets through­
out the  Star Wars  universe. Tribes can be nomadic, depending 
almost entirely upon hunting and foraging for food, or they can 
settle, which indicates the development of agriculture.

PLANET TYPE

The following table determines the basic type of world that 
the civilization in question has developed on. Roll 2D and find 
the results below.

2D
2-9
10
11

Result
Terrestrial
Satellite (Normally gas giant)
Asteroid Belt

Optional Modifiers: −2 Population (initial roll only)
Incompatible   Conditions:

 Agriculture,   Homeworld 

Planet Function

12

Artificial

Optional Modifiers: −2 Population (initial roll only)

2-9: Terrestrial.  The planet is a typical ball of rock and metals 
orbiting a sun. Most terrestrial planets have atmospheres, and 
many   have   developed   life.   Move   on   to   the   “Terrain”   section 
below.

10: Satellite (Normally Gas Giant). This world is a moon orbit­
ing a gas giant (much like Yavin IV as seen in Star War: A New  
Hope). Since there is a civilization here, it probably has a breath­
able   atmosphere   and   supports   life,   or   there   were   important 
resources too valuable to pass up. Move on to the “Terrain” sec­
tion below. Satellites are almost always tide-locked to the gas 
giants they orbit.

11  :   Asteroid  Belt.  Asteroid belts are either the remnants of 
planets shattered by collisions with large stellar bodies or merely 
portions of stellar material that never coalesced into a planet. 
Settled asteroid belts are often rich in minerals and metals, and 
their small size prevents them from supporting an atmosphere. 
Most asteroid belt civilizations are either subterranean or have 
sealed and probably domed buildings built on the surface. Since 
asteroids   are   naturally   airless,   civilizations   require   regulated 
environments.   Read   the   sidebar   labeled   “Regulated   Environ­
ments” and then move ahead to the section labeled “Starport.” 
Asteroid belt settlements required a tech level of atomic, infor­
mation or space to be established (if the settlement was aban­
doned, the civilization may have devolved and lost tech levels).

Optional Modifiers: −2 Population (initial roll only)
Incompatible   Conditions:  Agriculture,   Homeworld   Planet 

Function

12:  Artificial.  Artificial results indicate orbiting space stations 
domed cities built on planets with toxic atmospheres,and great 
floating complexes built in gas giants. All artificial settlements 
need some means of sustaining themselves (such as huge repul­
sor engines to keep Cloud City aloft, or sealed domes to keep

SEASONAL CHANGES

The seasons on a planet are caused by the amount of 
axial tilt. If the planet’s axis of rotation is perfectly “verti­
cal” (perpendicular to the plane of its orbit) there are no 
seasons,   and   the   temperature   is   constant   year   round. 
However, there will still be temperature changes due to 
weather.

However,   if   the   axial   tilt   isn’t   “vertical,”   the   planet 
experiences   seasons.   The   greater   the   degree   of   tilt,   the 
more extreme the seasonal change. Planets with a high 
degree of tilt experience extreme seasons. One side of the 
planet   will   have   brutally   cold   winters,   with   continual 
darkness. At the same time, the opposite side of the planet 
will experience a sweltering summer and continual sun­
light, with temperatures well above boiling. As the planet 
circles the sun, there will be a brief period of moderation, 
and then the side of the world that was previously locked 
in the grip of winter is now exposed to searing sunlight 
and the side that was experiencing a deadly summer is 
now exposed to the cold and dark of space. As the planet 
swings back around the sun, there again is a brief moder­
ate period, before the planet returns to the seasons origi­
nally described.

TIDE LOCK

Tide locked planets are trapped with one half of the 
planet continuously facing the sun and the other facing 
out into space. They cannot rotate, and thus there is no  
day/night cycle. These planets are almost always uninhab­
itable, but there are exceptions (some planets have a hab­
itable zone on the boundary of the night and day sides). If 
a planet is tide locked, ignore the effects of axial tilt.

the toxins out of the city). Since artificial planets require a regu­
lated environment, read the “Regulated Environments” sidebar 
and then skip to the section labeled “Starport.” Artificial settle­
ments require a tech level of information or space.

Optional Modifiers: −2 Population (initial roll only)

TERRAIN

The   gamemaster   must   determine   the  dominant   terrain   for 
the planet. There can be many different types of terrain on a 
planet, but the dominant terrain is the one that the characters 
will interact with most often. Diverse planets may have several 
major terrain types. Additionally, the planet’s terrain may be a 
combination of types (such as mountainous forest).

While   these   classifications   provide   basic   information   as   to 
the   terrain   types,   the   gamemaster   must   customize   them   to 
match the unique nature of the planet. Each terrain entry has a 
listing of compatible conditions, which is where these terrain 
types are most likely to be found. Some terrain types also have 
incompatible conditions, where they will seldom be found. If a 
quality isn’t listed (such as a Moderate Hydrosphere, for exam­
ple),   the   conditions   are   neither   particularly   favorable  for  the

terrain, nor do they preclude the existence of the terrain type. If 
the gamemaster rolls incompatible terrain results, he may opt to 
discard the results, or reason through a really unusual situation 
that allows this result. To determine the terrain type, roll on the 
six-sided percentile system.

D6% Result
Barren

11

Compatible Conditions: Arid, Dry Hydrosphere
Incompatible Conditions: Moist, Saturated 
Hydrosphere
Optional Modifiers: −2 Population (initial roll 
only); +3 Atmosphere

12-13 Cave

Optional Modifiers: +2 Atmosphere; −2 
Population (initial roll only)

14

Crater Field

15-16 Desert

Compatible Conditions: Arid, Dry Hydrosphere
Incompatible Conditions: Moist, Saturated 
Hydrosphere

21-24 Forest

Compatible Conditions: Moderate, Moist 
Hydrosphere; Hot, Temperate, Cool Temperature
Incompatible Conditions: Arid Hydrosphere; 
Frigid, Searing Temperature

25-26 Glacier

Compatible Conditions: Moist, Saturated 
Hydrosphere; Cool, Frigid Temperature
Incompatible Conditions: Arid, Dry Hydrosphere; 
Searing, Hot, Temperate Temperature

31-32 Jungle

Compatible Conditions: Moderate, Moist, 
Saturated Hydrosphere; Searing, Hot, Temperate 
Temperature 
Incompatible Conditions: Arid, Dry Hydrosphere; 
Cool, Frigid Temperature

33-34 Mountain

Incompatible Conditions: Saturated Hydrosphere

35-41 Ocean

Compatible Conditions: Moderate, Moist, 
Saturated Hydrosphere
Incompatible Conditions: Arid, Dry Hydrosphere
Optional Modifiers: −1 Population (initial roll 
only)

42-44 Plain

Compatible Conditions: Dry, Moderate, Moist 
Hydrosphere; Hot, Temperate, Cool Temperature
Incompatible Conditions: Arid, Saturated 
Hydrosphere; Searing, Frigid Temperature

45-46 Plateau

Incompatible Conditions: Saturated Hydrosphere

51-52 Urban

Optional Modifiers: +1 Population (initial roll 
only)

53-61 Wetlands

Incompatible Conditions: Arid, Dry Hydrosphere; 
Frigid, Searing Temperature

62-63 Volcanic

Incompatible Conditions: Type I atmospheres
Optional Modifiers: −2 Population (initial roll 
only); +3 Atmosphere

64-66 Special Terrain

ELLIPTICAL ORBITS

Some  planets  orbit   their  star in  unusual   orbits,  with 
one part of the orbit coming much closer to the sun than 
the rest of the orbit. These elliptic orbits account for huge 
seasonal   variations,   and  the   lengths   of  seasons   are   not 
equal.   In   extreme   situations,   the   planet   is   locked   in   a 
deadly cold winter for years at a time, but as it swoops in 
close to the star, the planet quickly thaws and life returns, 
all within the span of a few weeks.

PLANETARY WEATHER

Meteorology is one of the most difficult of the sciences 
to understand, simply because there are so many factors 
involved in determining the weather of a plane. Weather 
is defined as any type of wind or precipitation, whether is 
in  the  form  of   rain,  sleet,  ice,  ice  shards, or  something 
even more exotic.

In general, weather fronts are created by the spin of 
the planet and the mixture of different temperature air 
masses (such as when cool air from a great water body 
collides with warm air from the interior of a continent). 
Weather can be amplified by the presence of satellites, an 
unusual   planetary   orbit   (such   as   elliptical),   local   geo­
graphic conditions (there tends to be more rain when a 
weather   front   hits   a   mountain   chain,   since   the   clouds 
must lose moisture in order to rise above them) and the 
effects of galactic civilization (climate control is used on 
many advanced planets).

Precipitation   might   be   measured   in   centimeters   per 
year, or even meters per day, depending upon the amount 
of moisture in the air and climate. The strength of winds 
might   be   barely   noticeable,   or  so   strong   that   buildings 
must be securely anchored or they will be blown over.

The   scope   of   this   work   doesn’t   allow   for   detailed 
weather mechanics, but with all of the options available 
to gamemasters, the sky’s the limit.

REGULATED ENVIRONMENTS

Space   stations,   asteroid   belt   cities,   domed   cities   and 
other artificial environments are called regulated environ­
ments. It is assumed that these environments are set for 
the most comfortable conditions for the species that built 
the environment, or in the case of Humans, a temperate 
temperature, Standard gravity, and a day/night cycle hov­
ering abound 20-25 standard hours.

However, should there be a catastrophic disaster, the 
natural environment may come rushing into the facility, 
or things such as  oxygen  re-processors  or repulsor grav 
generators   may   fail.   If   the   regulated   environment   is   a 
domed city or a construct within a gas giant, the immense 
gravitational forces and atmospheric pressures may cause 
the facility to collapse. Filters could fail, releasing all kinds 
of toxins into the environment. While accidents should be 
rare, the potential for disaster is enormous.

11: Barren. Barren planets are typically Arid, possibly with hos­
tile atmospheres. The ground is extremely hard, dry and is hos­
tile   to   most   forms   of   life.   There   may   be   large   rocks   on   the 
surface   or   embedded   in   the   rock   hard   ground.   Minerals   and 
metals   may   be   found.   Barren   planets   are   predisposed   to 
unbreathable atmospheres.

Compatible Conditions: Arid, Dry Hydrosphere
Incompatible Conditions: Moist, Saturated Hydrosphere
Optional   Modifiers:  −2   Population   (initial   roll   only);   +3 

Atmosphere

12-13: Cave.  The planet is dominated by an immense network 
of caves running throughout the crust. These caves are often 
caused by volcanic activity, and if the activity is ongoing, areas 
can quickly become dangerous as lava and toxic gases return to 
fill the caves they created. Cave planets almost always have Type 
11 atmospheres.

Optional   Modifiers:  +2   Atmosphere;   −2  Population   (initial 

roll only)

portion of the local year. The ground can be moist or dry. They 
are excellent incubators for life, from plants to insects and larg­
er carnivorous animals. They require ample water, but can be 
warm or cool.

Compatible Conditions:  Moderate, Moist, Saturated Hydro­

sphere; Searing, Hot, Temperate Temperature

Incompatible Conditions: Arid, Dry Hydrosphere; Cool, Frigid 

Temperature.

33-34: Mountain.  Mountainous planets have been (or still are) 
home to a great deal of geologic activity. The mountains can 
range from small hills (under a kilometer tall) to huge peaks sev­
eral   kilometers   tall. Depending upon  the  planet’s   atmosphere, 
plant   life,   and   soil,   mountain   areas   can   support   a   variety   of 
plant forms from trees to grasses or various lichens. Peaks of 
mountains on temperate and cold planets may be snow capped. 
Snow   capped   mountains   can   be   quite   dangerous   because   of 
avalanches.

Incompatible Conditions: Saturated Hydrosphere

14: Crater Field.  Crater fields can occur in virtually any other 
type of terrain, and they are the result of continuous impacts 
from meteorites, resulting in huge cratered areas on the planet. 
The impacts could have ended millions of years ago, or they may 
still be ongoing. Large enough meteors could cause significant 
climate changes on a planet by throwing huge clouds of soil 
into the air or causing earthquakes. Planets with light gravities 
are favorable for crater fields.

Incompatible Conditions: Thick atmospheres

35-41: Ocean. Ocean planets are dominated by huge bodies of 
water or other liquid. The oceans can be very deep, or merely  
large   and   shallow,   depending   upon   whether   or   not   geologic 
activity   has   created   great   mountainous   regions   (islands   are 
often   the   peaks   of   small   mountains   that   emanate   from   the 
ocean’s floor). These planets may be searing to frigid, although 
frigid oceans will most often be covered by huge glacial sheets 
of ice.

Compatible Conditions:  Moderate, Moist, Saturated Hydro­

15-16: Desert. Deserts are typically found on dry and arid plan­
ets, and support only a minimum of life due to a lack of mois ­
ture.   Deserts   can   be   found   in   any   temperature   zone.   Warm 
desert areas can be very dangerous because travelers can easily 
become dehydrated (an exposure suit will prevent dehydration).

Compatible Conditions: Arid, Dry Hydrosphere
Incompatible Conditions: Moist, Saturated Hydrosphere

21-24:   Forest.  Forests   occur   most   commonly   in   temperate 
zones, but they can also occur in very cold or warm areas. If  
they receive a great deal of precipitation in tropical areas, they 
are called rain forests. Forests may be active year round, or may 
be seasonal (most of the plants go into hibernation during cool­
er seasons). They generally receive ample rainfall.

Compatible Conditions:  Moderate, Moist Hydrosphere; Hot, 

Temperate, Cool Temperature

Incompatible   Conditions:  Arid Hydrosphere; Frigid, Searing 

Temperature

25-26: Glacier.  Glaciers are huge, frozen sheets of ice that can 
be several kilometers thick. Icebergs are chunks of glaciers that 
have been broken off and now float in oceans. Glaciers grind 
the   land   beneath   them,   constantly   reforming  it.   Glaciers   can 
occur on land, or above ocean.

Compatible Conditions: Moist, Saturated Hydrosphere; Cool, 

Frigid Temperature

Incompatible   Conditions:  Arid,   Dry   Hydrosphere;   Searing, 

Hot, Temperate Temperature

31-32: Jungle. Jungles are any area overgrown by plant life, and 
often include low-lying wetlands that support many forms of 
plant and animal life. They are often warm at least a substantial

sphere

Incompatible Conditions: Arid, Dry Hydrosphere
Optional Modifiers: −1 Population (initial roll only)

42-44: Plain. Plains areas are simply huge, flat expanses of life, 
typically   supporting   grasses   and   bushes   as   primary   forms   of 
plant life. Grasslands can be found in virtually any hydrosphere 
and temperature range, but they are most common in tropical 
and temperate dry regions. Very cold, dry grasslands are often 
called tundra, and very warm, dry grasslands are often called 
savannas.

Compatible   Conditions:  Dry, Moderate, Moist  Hydrosphere; 

Hot, Temperate, Cool Temperature

Incompatible Conditions: Arid, Saturated Hydrosphere; Sear­

ing, Frigid Temperature

45-46: Plateau.  Plateaus are large sections of mostly flatland 
that are elevated above other portions of nearby land. They typ­
ically occur in the interior of continents. On a plateau, virtually 
any type of terrain can be found.

Incompatible Conditions: Saturated Hydrosphere

51-52: Urban. This result means that most of the planet is cov­
ered by artificial constructions, typically huge city sprawls. This 
is indicative of a very high population, and most so-called urban 
planets concentrate on trade, manufacturing or administration. 
Agriculture can sometimes be conducted in huge hydroponics 
factories, or beneath the surface if the plants don’t require sun­
light (typical of mosses and fungi). Urban terrains can be layered 
on top of most other terrain conditions, such as plateaus, moun­
tains, and plains. In addition to habitable cities, urban results 
may indicate huge factories and relining facilities.

Aside from buildings, many urban settings will have extensive 
cultivated areas for agriculture. This classification can include 
any developed area that isn’t wilderness.

 Optional Modifiers: +1 Population (initial roll only)

53-61 Wetlands.  Wetlands are moist low-lying wet areas, and 
play a vital role in most ecosystems. They can take the form of 
ponds, marshes, or swamps, and support bushes, trees, grasses 
and many different forms of life.

Incompatible   Conditions:  Arid,   Dry   Hyrdosphere;   Frigid, 

Searing Temperature

region).  The  “true”  temperature of an  area  can  be  altered by 
local  geographic  features.  Seasonal  changes   also greatly  alter 
temperature (see “Seasonal Changes” sidebar). Some planets are 
trapped in what is called tide lock (see “Tide Lock” sidebar). Still 
other   planets   have   elliptical   orbits   (see   “Elliptical   Orbits” 
sidebar).

All   of   these   possible  combinations   give   the   gamemaster   a 
great deal of diversity and choice when designing the planet. 
These special results are not incorporated into the random tables 
so that the gamemaster can choose exactly which   effects are 
most useful. Roll 2D to determine the average temperature.

62-63:   Volcanic.  Volcanoes   and   lava   pools   cover   the   planet, 
indicating a very high level of geologic activity. Volcanic planets 
often have high levels of ash and toxic gases in the atmosphere, 
and the lava, of course, is very dangerous. However, these plan­
ets often have high quality metals in their crust. Volcanic plan­
ets often have hazardous atmospheres.

Incompatible Conditions: Type I atmospheres
Optional   Modifiers:  −2   Population   (initial   roll   only);   +3 

Atmosphere

64-66: Special Terrain. These are unusual terrains that demon­
strate the incredible versatility of the Star Wars universe. These 
terrain  types  can  also  explain   seemingly contradictory  terrain 
rolls. What follows are some examples:

• Crystal forests and fields. The crystals may be immensely valu­
able, or merely scenic. They may also be a hazard if they magni­
fy incoming sunlight, possibly blinding careless travelers.

2D
2
3-4
5-9
10-11
12

Result
Searing
Hot
Temperate
Cool
Frigid

2: Searing. Searing planets average 60 degrees Celsius or more, 
and are hostile to most life forms, although standing bodies of 
water are possible as long as the average temperature isn’t near 
the boiling point (100 degrees  Celsius). Most civilizations  will 
tend to cluster near the more moderate polar regions or under­
ground.

3-4: Hot. Hot planets average between 30 and 56 degrees Cel­
sius, and while generally uncomfortable, are not nearly as hos­
tile as searing planets.

•   Planets   with   ammonia   oceans,   where   the   land   masses   are 
actually rock-solid ice fields. This type of condition requires very 
low temperatures and often has a Type IV atmosphere.

5-9: Temperate. Temperate planets average between −5 and 29 
degrees Celsius, and are in the most comfortable temperature 
bands for Humans and other life forms.

• Underground forests, found in great subterranean caverns. The 
trees and bushes derive most of their energy from the geother­
mal energy released by the interior of the planet.

• Huge canyons cover the planet.

• A planet where most of the water is trapped on high plateaus, 
and   the   lowest   sections   of   the   planet   are   actually   parched 
deserts.

• Planets like Kashyyyk, with several distinct “bio-levels,” where 
the   type   of   creature   and   its   behaviors   is   distinctly   different 
based on the altitude. This can be accomplished through use of 
mountains, huge trees, or even planets where there are many 
lighter   than   air   gases   and   many   flying   and   gliding   creatures 
have internal bladders for constant lift.

• Planets that are covered with toxic and radioactive pools. They 
may have been mining planets that were just tapped out and 
converted   to   waste   dumps.   Whole   new   lifeforms   (and   hardy 
ones at that) could evolve in these conditions.

• A planet with an unusual substance that mixes with water,  
turning into a jellied goo at temperatures up to 80 degrees Cel­
sius. In warmer seasons, there are huge flowing oceans of the 
muck,   while   in   winter,   the   goo   hardens,   expands   and   covers 
much of the planet (much like a hot-weather glacier).

TEMPERATURE

This classification represents the average temperature on the 
planet’s surface. Most planets have several varying temperature 
bands, from the coldest (polar regions) to warmest (equatorial 

10-11: Cool. Cool planets average between −20 and −4 degrees 
Celsius. Most cool planets do not support a huge number of life 
forms, but life can still adapt to planetary conditions. Plant life 
may be common if it contains compounds that prevents vital 
water-based fluids from freezing.

12:  Frigid.  Frigid planets average −21 degrees Celsius or less, 
and   are   often   inhospitable.   If   the   hydrosphere   is   Temperate, 
Moist, or Saturated, the planet may be covered with ice glaciers.

GRAVITY

Star Wars: The Roleplaying Game uses four classifications to 
indicate the gravity of a world. As indicated before, most regu ­
lated environments will have a gravity of Standard.

2D
2
3-4

Result
Zero Gravity
Light

Optional Modifiers: +2 Atmosphere

5-11
12

Standard
Heavy

Optional Modifiers: +2 Atmosphere

2: Zero Gravity.  Asteroids, comets and other very small stellar 
bodies have effectively zero gravity, which also eliminates the 
possibility   of   an   atmosphere   (barring   the   use   of   technology, 
such as energy screens). Space stations that lose power may also 

lose   their   repulsorgrav   generators,   effectively   throwing   the 
whole station into a zero gravity situation.

In zero gravity, things and beings float unless thrust is some­
how provided. On the other hand, once something begins mov­
ing,   it   doesn’t   stop   until   something   else   stops   it   (such   as   a 
collision  with   a  wall). The  applies  for  vertical,  horizontal  and 
even twisting movement since there truly is no “up” or “down.”

Characters  in  zero  gravity can  float  up to five  meters  per 
round   and   have   no   control   over   direction   unless   they   have 
something   to   push   off   against,   in   which   case   they   float   10 
meters. Increase the difficulty of all Dexterity or Strength checks 
by 2 (excluding checks to resist damage). Combined actions are 
not possible. Characters attempting full dodges will smash into 
any object in their path (taking 3D stun damage). Each  dodge  
counts as two actions. Characters will be able to control their  
direction of flight by firing blasters or projectile weapons as a 
means of propulsion, but this requires a Moderate  Mechanical 
roll to control direction. Similarly, characters who fire weapons 
in combat will be pushed away unless they are braced against a 
wall.

3-4:   Light.  Planets   with   light  gravity  allow   characters   to   lift 
heavier objects, but also throws off physical coordination. They 
also   allow   easier   movement.   There   are   few   inhabited   planets 
with light gravity.

In very light gravities, the gamemaster may want to use the 
following optional modifiers: +1D bonus to all Strength actions 
(except   for   resisting   damage);   −1D   penalty   for   all  Dexterity 
actions.

Optional Modifiers: +2 Atmosphere

5-11: Standard. Standard gravity is that which is most common 
on  Imperial worlds, and therefore most comfortable for most 
species. Standard gravity includes several gradients of true grav­
itational pull, but is placed within this convenient grouping.

12:   Heavy.  Heavy   gravity  planets   have  a   much   stronger   pull 
than normal, the effects of which can be merely inconvenient or 
crippling. Planets with very heavy gravity may make a person’s 
body so heavy that they cannot move. There are few planets 
with heavy gravity, and most of them are just barely beyond the 
Standard gravity classification. On these “barely heavy” gravity 
planets, even walking counts as an action (it is not “free move­
ment”).

Gamemasters   can   use  the  following  optional   modifiers   for 
slightly heavier gravity planets: −1D to all Strength and Dexteri­
ty actions (except for resisting damage). Characters must make a 
minimum of a Moderate  stamina  check after every minute of 
heavy exertion, although checks may be made more difficult or 
frequent   at   the   gamemaster’s   discretion.   Characters   who   fail 
these stamina checks must rest for a double the amount of time 
they were active or suffer a −3D penalty to all actions except 
resisting damage in  combat. Additionally,  when  the character 
suffers damage from collisions or falling, increase the damage 
by a minimum of 1D.

Optional Modifiers: +2 Atmosphere

ATMOSPHERE

Most   stellar   bodies   of   significant   size   have   atmospheres 
(some   planets   have   had   their   atmospheres   ripped   away   by   a 
near pass with a rogue planet or some similar cataclysm). Gas 
giant atmospheres are often composed of methane, ammonia, 
and various hydrocarbons (Type IV), although a very small num­
ber of gas giants have been discovered with a breathable atmos­
phere   within   a   limited   biozone   (Bespin   being   the   prime 
example). Imperial bureaucrats use a very simple classification 
system for atmospheres. Most ship sensors can determine the 
type of atmosphere with sensors. However, sensors are not per­
fect, and may miss trace elements that can be harmful to the 
ship’s inhabitants, so the results of a sensor scan should never 
be taken at face value.

To  randomly determine  a  planet’s   atmosphere,  roll  2D  and 

check the result below.

2D
2
3-9
10
11
12

Result
None
Type I (breathable)
Type II (breath mask suggested)
Type III (breath mask required)
Type IV (environment suit required)

2: None. This planet has no appreciable atmosphere and a space 
suit is required simply to survive on the world. Planets without 
an atmosphere typically have much greater temperature varia­
tions because there is no atmosphere to disperse solar energy 
(on the sun side) or retain heat (on the night side). Characters 
exposed   to   the   vacuum   of  space   suffer   4D   damage   the   first 
round of exposure, and increase the damage by +2D for each 
additional round in the vacuum.

3-9: Type I (Breathable). A Type I atmosphere has a proper mix­
ture of oxygen, nitrogen and other gases so that Humans and 
comparable species can breath it unassisted. These atmospheres 
may have contaminants that over the long term have a detri­
mental effect. Planets with a Type I atmosphere will have life or 
at least had life recently.

10: Type II (Breath Mask Suggested). Type II atmospheres can 
support life without use of a breath mask, but either due to too 
much or too little atmospheric pressure or oxygen, or unusual 
gases or contaminants, it is recommended that a breath mask be 
worn.   Without   a   breath   mask,   detrimental   effects,   such   as 
slowed reactions, reduced brain activity, poisoning, or a myriad 
of other effects can begin to occur within just a few hours of  
exposure. Many alien species can comfortably breathe Type II 
atmospheres without having to resort to breath masks.

Planets with a Type II atmosphere will have life or at least 

had life recently.

11: Type III (Breath Mask Required).  Type III atmospheres are 
unbreathable without a breath mask, again due to a number of 
possible   characteristics.   The   atmosphere   could   be   highly   poi­
sonous, or simply not have enough oxygen to breathe. Charac­
ters   without   breath   masks   can   begin   to   suffer   detrimental 
effects immediately. A small number of alien species (and cer­
tainly native creatures) will be able to breath these atmospheres 
unaided.

Type III atmosphere planets frequently support life.

12: Type IV (Environment Suit Required). Type IV atmospheres 
are not only poisonous, but they are so reactive that they will 
cause injury to persons who are exposed to it. Environment suits, 
space   suits   or   life-support   equipment   is   required   to   venture 
through   the   atmosphere,   or   characters   will   suffer   burns   and 
other grievous injuries. If the planet is Frigid, a thermal suit may 
be   necessary.   These   atmospheres   may   also   be   flammable   or 
highly explosive. The gamemaster must customize the effects of 
the hostile atmosphere.

HYDROSPHERE

The  hydrosphere  represents   the   amount   of  moisture  on   or 
near the surface of the planet. Water is not necessarily the only 
liquid that can be found. The water may have a high concentra­
tion of another substance that makes it unfit for consumption, 
or the liquid might merely be water-based, but have other com-

ponents that make it a different compound. More exotic options 
include   huge   lava   lakes   (on   planets   with   plenty   of   geologic 
activity), or deadly ammonia seas (on extremely cold planets). 
Roll 2D.

2D
2
3-4
5-9
10-11
12

Result
Arid
Dry
Moderate
Moist
Saturated

2: Arid. The planet is 85-100 percent covered by land. The planet 
has very little or no standing liquid, and there probably is very 
little moisture in the atmosphere. There may be large lakes and 
seas, but there are no great  oceans. Much of the planet will 
probably be desert.

3-4: Dry. The planet is 50-84 percent covered by land. The plan­
et has some standing liquid, and the land is probably a mixture 
of desert, dry plains, tundra, or other terrain types not requiring 
a great deal of water.

5-9: Moderate. The planet is 15-49 percent covered by land. The 
planet has large oceans and probably a well developed river net­
work,   especially   if   the   planet   has   large   hills   and   mountains. 
There are probably many different terrain types.

10-11: Moist. The planet is only 5-14 percent covered by land. 
Most of the planet is covered by water or another liquid, and 
the few land masses that do exist are wet. Bogs and swamps are 
common.

12: Saturated. The planet is only 0-4 percent covered by land. 
Land only takes the form of islands, which may again be bogs, 
or swamps. Oceans dominate the terrain.

LENGTH OF DAY

The length of day for most terrestrial planets not subjected 
to tide lock or another extreme condition is in the range of 18 
to 36 standard hours. Even though tide-locked planets do not 
have days, it  is  useful to determine what a likely day length 
would be so that the length of the local year can be determined. 
To determine this total, roll 1D:

1D
1-2
3-4
5
6

Result (in standard hours)
Roll 2D and add 10
Roll 1D and add 20
Roll 1D and add 25
Roll 1D and add 30

Satellite planets may have days several dozen hours long (as 
long as it takes the satellite to orbit the gas giant). The local  
year depends upon the orbit of the gas giant and may be several 
standard years long.

LENGTH OF YEAR

A simple die roll will generate a suitable total since so many 
different factors are responsible for the determining the orbital 
radius and speed of the planet. The total can be increased or  
decreased by a few days to make the total unique compared

to other planets. To determine this total, roll 2D of different col­
ors. Read the results below and the total of the two numbers 
equals the length of year in local days:

First Die (1D)
Multiply the number ×15
Second Die (1D)
1
2
3-4
5
6

75 local days
150 local days
225 local days
300 local days
375 local days

SENTIENT SPECIES

The gamemaster should determine what alien species are on 
the   planet   in   large   quantities.   Humans   are   among   the   most 
diverse species in the galaxy and can be found almost every­
where, but other species such as Devaronians, Duros, Gamorre­
ans, Ithorians, Rodians, Sullustans, and Twi’leks are also known 
to colonize and reside on many different planets. If the planet is 
similar to a species’s preferred climate, or there is plenty of work 
to   be   found,   other   species   may   be   encountered   as   well.   The 
planet may have a native sentient species, designated by an (N) 
on this line of the planet log.

Gamemasters must take a few moments to design the native 
sentient species, bearing in mind the kind of environment the 
species evolved in. He should decide their biology, culture, histo­
ry, how galactic civilization changed their society, what common 
occupations they have and what their personalities are like.

STARPORT

The Imperial Space Ministry has five different classifications 
for starports. For random determination of the starport, roll 2D 
and find the result on the chart below.

2D
2
3-5
6-8
9-11
12

Result
Landing field
Limited services
Standard class
Stellar class
Imperial/Republic class

2: Landing Field.  There may be a flat space on the ground for 
ships to land. There is no control tower (there may not even be 
other starships on the planet). Fueling and repair services are 
probably unavailable at any price.

3-5: Limited Services. This is typically a simple landing field, but 
there is at least a control tower to prevent collisions between 
ships in the planet’s airspace. There may be maintenance sheds 
for rent. There may be fuel for sale, but other important supplies 
are unavailable.

6-8: Standard Class. The starport is fully-staffed and equipped. 
Restocking services are available, and there is a small shipyard 
for minor repairs and modifications. Prices for repairs and modi­
fications can be up to double normal prices, and take twice as 
long to accomplish.

9-11: Stellar Class.  This type of starport can dock and service 
almost any class of ship. There are probably several shipyards in 
the   immediate   area,   and   they   can   handle   major   repairs   and 
modifications. There is almost always an Imperial Customs office 
on site.

12: Imperial/Republic Class.  Modern and luxurious ports with 
complete storage and maintenance facilities, and a large num­
ber of landing fields and docks. A complete menu of services 
and luxuries are available for the ship and its crew. Important 
merchants have offices at the starport. The shipyards are capa­
ble   of   rapid   repairs   and   modifications.   The   Imperial   Customs 
office is well staffed.

POPULATION

This figure represents the total sentient population on a par­
ticular planet. For random determination, roll 1D and use the 
chart below.

1D
1
2-3
4-5
6

Basic Population Range
Population is 1-999
Population is in the thousands
Population is in the millions
Population is in the billions

(Now, roll for within that range if the population is in single 
numbers, tens, or hundreds for that category.)

Result
1D
Population is in singles (1-9)
1-2
Population is in tens (10-90)
3-4
5-6
Population is in hundreds (100-900)
(For exact numbers, roll 1D to determine if number is between 1-5 
or 6-9. Determine to two significant figures.)

1D
1-3

4-6

Result
Number is between 1-5 (roll 1D, ignoring 6)
Number is between 6-9 (roll 1D, ignoring 5 and 

6, and add five)

It is recommended that the gamemaster not allow popula­
tions   over  100 billion. Any population   over  10  billion   is   very 
likely to be an urban terrain planet, with a standard class or bet­
ter starport and an industrial level or higher tech level.

Example:  The   gamemaster   wants   to   randomly 
determine the population of a planet. He rolls 1D get­
ting a result of “3” (the population will be in the thou­
sands).

A second die roll yields a result of “5” (the popula­

tion is in the hundreds of thousands).

To   determine   the   exact   number,   the   gamemaster 
must first roll the first significant figure. A roll of “1” 
tells him the number is between 1 and 5, and a second 
roll of “3” tells him the first number is 3, for a first 
number of 300,000.

To determine the second significant figure, a roll of 
“5” tells him the number is between 6 and 10. To get 
the specific number, he rolls 1D and adds five, ignoring 
a 5 or 6. He rolls a “1”, and by adding 5, gets a total of 
6. This makes the planet’s population 360,000.

TECH LEVEL

The level of technological achievement is important in deter­
mining what goods the planet can manufacture, as well as what 
they are likely to be interested in purchasing. Few planets fit 
directly into one of these classifications.

This   classification   system,   utilized   by   Imperial   bureaucrats, 
represents the typical level of technology to be found on the 
planet, but there may be areas where individuals have developed 
or somehow acquired more advanced technology. Planets with 
no sentient inhabitants are considered Stone level by default. 
Roll 2D.

2D
2
3
4
5
6-7
8-12

Result
Stone
Feudal
Industrial
Atomic
Information
Hyperspace

2: Stone. Stone level civilizations have loosely-knit cultures and 
the basic social unit is likely to be the tribe. The society makes 
and uses stone tools and may have developed primitive agricul­
ture. These people do not understand the concept of money, so 
trade will be by barter. There is no transportation network.

3: Feudal. Feudal planets have a more complex social structure 
and have begun to produce primitive manufactured goods. They 
have  learned  primitive   mining  and ore-processing  techniques. 
Transportation is normally by ship or caravan.

4:   Industrial.  Industrial   planets   are   beginning   to   understand 
mass production, and have established more complex political 
and social structures. Windmills, waterwheels, wood or coal fur­
naces will be used to generate energy. These planets typically 
want to acquire knowledge to help improve their technology. 
Motorized   transportation,   projectile   weapons   and   the   begin­
nings of mass communication are common.

5: Atomic.  Atomic planets have advanced, large-scale produc­
tion of goods. They will be very interested in new technologies. 
More advanced alloys and plastics become available. Space trav­
el is in its infancy. Established industries, such as transportation, 
communications, medicine, and business, quickly progress and 
grow.

6-7: Information.  Sophisticated communications, such as com­
puters and satellites, become readily available. Industry becomes 
more efficient, mechanization is very common, and the precur­
sors of droids appear. Energy weapons are beginning to be dis­
covered, in-system space travel is common and colony ships to 
other   planets   are   a   distinct   possibility.   Repulsorlift   may   be 
developed. Natural resources may become scarce.

8-12: Space.  This is the stage of most planets within galactic 
civilization,   and   is   characterized   by   hyperspace   travel,   droids, 
blasters, and highly efficient industry. Planets at this level are 
often integrated into the galactic economy, and produce many 
goods for export, but also import many goods.

MAJOR IMPORTS AND EXPORTS

This should be chosen by the gamemaster only after consid­
ering   the   government,   tech   level   and   planet   function   as   a 
whole. The gamemaster must decide what the planet produces 
for  its   own   consumption,  what   it   ships  to  other  planets   and 
what it must purchase from other planets. The whole galactic 
economy is built upon the fact that most planets specialize in  
producing   certain   goods   and   must   import   goods   from   other 
planets for survival.

Imperial bureaucrats group goods within eight general cate­
gories. Within these categories, planets may export or import 
only a few products. The categories are: low, mid, or high tech ­
nology, metals, minerals, luxury goods, foodstuffs and medicinal 
goods

SYSTEM/STAR NAME

Generally, the system and the star are named after the most 

important planet of the system.

STAR TYPE

The gamemaster should determine the type of star for the 
system. White, yellow-white, yellow, orange, and red stars could 
conceivably support  habitable  planets  (yellow  and  orange  are 
most  likely).  White  dwarfs   (which  were  once  red  giants) may 
have once supported habitable planets, but they were burned 
when the star became a red giant. Binary stars can support hab­
itable   planets,   and   although   rare,   this   is   not   impossible,   as 
Tatooine shows. This is possible if the stars are close enough to 
each other so that the planet orbits both stars, or the stars are 
so far apart that the planet can orbit around only one of the 
stars (this will almost always be the case). Trinary stars could 
also support habitable planets, but this is even less likely.

OTHER PLANETS

The gamemaster, at his option, can elect to detail the rest of 
the system. This is a matter of choosing the types of planets and 
their   names,   and   provided   you   don’t   start   explaining   the 
detailed astrophysics of the system, odds are likely no one will  
complain.  In  general, terrestrial  planets   will  occupy  the  inner 
orbits of the system. Next will be the gas giants, possibly fol­
lowed by frozen rock planets.

Gas   giants   will   be   the   only  planets   capable   of   supporting 
habitable satellites. Most satellites for terrestrial planets will be 
little more than  hunks of  frozen rock and ice, although  they 
could   be   a   large   “companion”   satellite.   Gamemasters   can   list 
other planets on the Planet Log. Moons of particular importance 
can   be   listed   after   the   planet   they   orbit   (in   the   text,   listed 
moons are italicized.).

DESIGNING LIFEFORMS

One of the final steps in designing a planet is deciding the 
lifeforms   that   inhabit   it.   However,   for   game   purposes   the 
gamemaster will never need to completely define the biosphere. 
When designing lifeforms, it is most important to remember the 
relationship the lifeform will have with other organisms in its 
environment. The following general concepts should help you 
develop interesting and unusual lifeforms.

“good   versus   evil”   for   such   creatures;   they   only   understand 
“beneficial to me” and “harmful to me.”

Sentient  organisms   are   the   highest   state   of   intelligence 
known in the Star Wars galaxy. The organism has the ability to 
imagine,   dream,   divine   the   consequences   of   events   based   on 
past  experiences   and  gauge   the   probability  of   future   success 
given   previously   acquired   knowledge.   Emotions   can   be   tem­
pered, instilled, altered. The culture of such beings can define 
things like good and evil in esoteric ways. These creatures can 
invent new things, create and test theories, or develop artificial 
worlds with no basis in real experience. True sentience is rare.

The Details

Within   this   framework,   virtually   every   social   relationship 
between any form of life can be defined. Once the situations are 
defined, the gamemaster can define how the lifeform moves, 
any unusual attacks or defenses, the lifeform’s social structure 
and needs, and other factors.

SAMPLE PLANETS

Here are some sample worlds to get you started. These plan­

ets represent a variety of world types.

Alderaan

The peaceful, idyllic world of Alderaan was destroyed in an 
instant   by   the   planet-shattering   laser   of  the   Death   Star,   the 
greatest atrocity of a Galactic Civil War that offered no short­
age. The demonstration was meant to cow the Empire’s restive 
worlds and keep them in line, but the Death Star was destroyed 
just days later, and Alderaan became a rallying cry for individu­
als,   systems,   and   species   now   determined   to   resist   the   New 
Order.

Human colonists came to Alderaan before the founding of 
the Republic and discovered a verdant world abandoned by an 
insect species, the Killiks. A founding member of the Republic, 
Alderaan became a symbol of human culture at its best, with 
cities built  to coexist  with nature, and renowned universities. 
People   across   the   galaxy   enjoyed   Alderaanian   cuisine,   spiced 
wines, and exhibitions of Alderaanian dance, theater, music, and 
poetry.   Three   useful   Alderaanian   animal   species   —   thrantas, 
grazers, and nerfs — also spread throughout the galaxy. 

Alderaan formally adopted pacifism after the horrors of the 
Clone Wars, ridding itself of all major weaponry. Cynics noted 
that this seemingly idealistic move made it easier for the planet 

Life

Animals  are life forms that must secure food already orga­
nized into organic (carbon-based) substances. In  other words, 
they generally cannot derive their sustenance from sunlight or 
soil, but rather must hunt down plants and other animals.

Plants  are lifeforms that manufacture their own food from 
inorganic substances. Often they draw energy from sunlight and 
nutrients   from   soil;   in   nutrient   poor   environments   they   may 
consume other plants and animals.

Bacteria are single-celled life forms. They can be both useful 

and harmful to other life forms.

Viruses are pure genetic material wrapped in a protein coat­
ing. When a virus is introduced to a new life form, it replaces 
the host’s genetic material and starts replicating itself, spreading 
throughout the host.

Relationships

Commensal  relationships   are   ones   in   which   one   organism 
coexists with another. The first organism derives some benefit 
from   its   coexistence,   while   the   second   organism   is   neither 
harmed nor benefits from the relationship.

Parasitic relationships are ones in which one organism coex­
ists with another. The first organism derives some benefit from 
the relationship, while the second organism is harmed, but not 
killed, by the relationship.

Predator relationships are ones where the first organism ben­
efits from the second organism, but also kills it, meaning that 
the predator must continually hunt down new forms of prey.

Symbiotic  relationships   are   ones   in   which   two   organisms 
coexist, and both of them benefit from their association with 
the other organism.

Intelligence

Non-intelligent  organisms   are   controlled   by   their   genetic 
code and the nature of their environment. They are merely reac­
tive.

Physical reflex organisms respond to external stimuli in vari­
able ways. This is not a cognitive process, however, but a pattern 
of innate and learned response to external stimuli. For example, 
these   creatures   back   away   from   hot   objects   after   they   are 
burned.   They   cannot   learn   in   advance   that   “hot   is   bad,”   for 
example.

Emotional reflex organisms can feel content, sad, and other 
emotions on a rudimentary level. They do not literally think “I  
am sad,” but instead respond with behavior modification when 
things are going well or poorly. These 
creatures   can   challenge   for   a   mate, 
battle   for   territory,   “feel”   hungry,   or 
get angry when they haven’t eaten.

Associative thought organisms can 
associate   one   occurrence   or   action 
with   another   one.   This   allows   for 
learned   behaviors.   For   example,   a 
hungry animal  can   chose  to  wait  to 
hunt   until   nightfall   because   it   has 
learned   to   associate   nightfall   with 
better chances of success when hunt­
ing.   These   creatures   can   feel   loyalty, 
hurt, angry, loss, remorse, or happiness 
to the same levels as more intelligent 
creatures, but cannot grasp ephemeral 
ideas   like   love   and   war.   There   is   no 

and its respected leader, Bail Organa, to actively oppose the New 
Order in the Senate — all in the name of the finest traditions of 
the   Republic,   of   course.   Alderaan   finally   crossed   the   line 
between   opposition   and   treason   when   Bail’s   successor,   his 
adopted   daughter   Leia   Organa,   was   caught   receiving   secret 
transmissions from Rebels above the planet Toprawa. Leia was 
interrogated and her homeworld destroyed by the Death Star 
before her eyes.

The Death Star’s superlaser left behind an asteroid field called 
the Graveyard, orbited by the remains of Alderaan’s moon. Many 
Alderaanian exiles now visit the Graveyard to pay their respects 
to those murdered by the Empire, a ritual known as the Return­
ing. The planet’s sister world, Delaya, survived the destruction 
and is the system’s sole inhabited world Delaya is an agricultural  
planet with light industry and no particular claim on galactic 
importance.

 ALDERAAN
Type: Terrestrial
Temperature: Temperate
Atmosphere: Type I (breathable)
Hydrosphere: Moderate
Gravity: Standard
Terrain: Forests, planes, grasslands
Length of Day: 24 standard hours
Length of Year: 364 local days
Sapient Species: Human, others
Starport: Imperial/Republic class
Population: 2 billion
Planet Function: Homeworld, academic
Government: Democracy
Tech Level: Space
Major Exports: Wine, art, luxury goods
Major Imports: Manufactured goods, electronics

Bespin

Gas giants are rarely worth the expense of colonization, but 
Bespin is an exception: Its rose-colored clouds contain a fortune 
in valuable Tibanna gas. That’s led to the creation of many float­
ing communities in the “Life Zone,” a band of breathable atmos­
phere   thirty   kilometers   deep.   Bizarre   floating,   flying,   and 
drifting creatures native to the planet now share this area with 
repulsorlift   cities   that   arc   home   to   humans,   Lutrillians,   and 
Ugnaughts, as well as numerous tourists. The most famous such 
settlement is Cloud City, a floating pleasure palace and Tibanna 
mine.

Cloud City was built by Ecclessis Figg, the eccentric “Master 
Trader of the Outer Javin,” purportedly as a facility to collect  
Tibanna for hyperdrive coolant. In reality, Figg was spin-sealing 
this gas for use in blasters — an operation that would attract the 

attention of the powerful Mining Guild and imperil Figg’s prof­
its.   To   deflect   the   guild’s   attention,   Figg   turned   his   mining 
colony into a graceful, cosmopolitan resort, with the Tibanna 
operations hidden away. Soon the lie became the truth: Tourism 
alone made Cloud City profitable. The city’s gambit failed when 
Boba Fett followed the  Millennium Falcon  there, leading to a 
visit from Darth Vader. Vader left behind a garrison, and stability 
wasn’t restored until after the Battle of Endor. Under the New 
Republic, control of the city was given to local Ugnaught lead­
ers, fulfilling a deal made by Lando Calrissian during his days as 
administrator.

Bespin’s Life Zone is home to clouds of phosphorescent algae 
and colossal invertebrates known as beldons, which some scien­
tists chink produce Tibanna gas. The beldons are preyed upon by 
sharp-toothed   predators   called   velkers.   Rawwks   are   bat-like 
scavengers  that  have claimed  abandoned prospecting stations 
for   their   roosts.   Finally,   a   herd   of   Alderaanian   thrantas   calls 
Bespin home; their riders perform vertiginous “sky rodeos” for 
tourists. Besides Cloud City, visitors sometimes tour Tibannopolis, 
a repulsorlift city abandoned during the Clone Wars, and the 
Ugnaught Surface, a floating platform designed to mimic condi­
tions on the Ugnaughts’ homeworld of Gentes.

 BESPIN

Type: Gas giant
Temperature: Temperate (in the Life Zone)
Atmosphere: Type I (breathable) in the Life Zone)
Hydrosphere: Moist (in the Life Zone)
Gravity: Standard (in the Life Zone)
Terrain: Gas giant
Length of Day: 12 standard hours
Length of Year: 10,220 local days
Sapient Species: Human, Ugnaughts
Starport: Standard
Population: 6 billion
Planet Function: Tibanna gas mining, gambling resort
Government: Guild
Tech Level: Space
Major Exports: Tibanna gas, tourism, cloud cars
Major Imports: Foodstuffs, mid tech, high tech

Corellia

Corellia has given rise to a people famous for their sentimen­
tality and notorious for their recklessness. “Corellia for Corel­
lians”   is   their   philosophy,   and   the   system   has   a   history   of  
attempted secession.

The enigmatic Celestials are believed to have assembled the 
Corellian system from preexisting planets, using a combination 
of buried repulsors and the hyperspace engine Centerpoint Sta­
tion. Around the star Corell, their arrangement took shape — 
first Corellia, then Drall, then the double worlds of 
Talus and Tralus (orbiting each other with Center­
point   Station   suspended   between   them),   and 
finally Selonia. Drall and Selonia appear to have 
had  native  species  of   their  own,  while  Corellia’s 
Humans may have been transplanted by the Celes­
tials.

By   30,000   BBY,   the   Corellian   system   had 
become part of the Rakatan Infinite Empire. The 
Corellians  later built hyperspace cannons  to link 
their   system   to   Coruscant   and   Duro,   and   by 
25,000 BBY they had perfected the modern hyper­
drive. 

Corellia kept its surface largely rural by moving starship con­
struction   facilities   into   space.   The   capital   city   of   Coronet 
became   an   eclectic   bazaar   for   off-duty   spacers   and   bargain 
hunters,   while   other   cities   traded   on   the   natural   beauty   of 
Corellia’s beaches, mountain peaks, and crystal swamps.

In 312 BBY, King Berethron e Solo abolished Corellia’s monar­
chy. In time, control of Corellia fell to a Diktat, whose duties  
included   maximizing   Corellia’s   footprint   in   shipbuilding   and 
interstellar trade During the Emperor’s reign Corellia answered 
to an Imperial Moff, but local power remained concentrated in 
the Diktat. After the Battle of Endor, the rival Grand Admirals  
Pitta and Grunger each claimed the Corellian system and anni­
hilated each other in their war.

Corellia eventually became a nominal member of the New 
Republic,   though   its   (Coruscant-appointed)   governor-general 
held little real power. By 16 ABY, anti–New Republic sentiment 
swelled sufficiently to trigger the Corellian Insurrection, an act 
of   secession   orchestrated   by  Thrackan   Sal-Solo  and  the   Triad 
government of Sacorria. Sal-Solo used Centerpoint Station as 
his pocket superweapon, destroying distant stars with its repul­
sor blasts.

The   crisis   ended   with   Sal-Solo   in   custody,   but  the   shrewd 
leader climbed back to power by the time of the Yuuzhan Vong 
invasion. Discredited for collaborating with the invader-friendly 
Peace Brigade, Sal-Solo reinvented himself a third time. In 40 
ABY   he   acted   as   Corellia’s   Head   of   State   during   the   second 
Corellian Insurrection, pushing the system into a civil war with 
the Galactic Alliance.

Urbanization continued at a furious pace. Soon, no point on 
the surface remained free from construction, save for the peaks 
of the Manarai Mountains. High above, weather satellites and 
orbital mirrors simulated a springtime climate; deep below, the 
dark   undercity   became   a   haven   for   cannibalistic   mutants. 
Unique districts emerged, from the shops of Glitannai Esplanade 
to   the   smoky   factories   of   The   Works.   The   Legislative   District 
housed   senators   from   across   the   galaxy,   with   its   nexus   the 
mushroom dome of the Galactic Senate Chamber.

Coruscant’s high profile made it a target. Over the millennia, 
Coruscant   became   a   focal   point   for   the   Tionese   Wars,   the 
Alsakan Conflicts, the Duinuogwuin Contention, the Great Droid 
Revolution, and the Great Sith War. The Jedi Order relocated to 
Coruscant following Ossus’s devastation in 3,996 BBY, while the 
Treaty of Coruscant in 3653 BBY forged a peace between the 
Republic and a revived Sith Empire.

By the time of the Clone Wars, Coruscant had become a sym­
bol of excess and decay, and Dooku’s assault on the planet led to 
an   all-out   clash   between   the   Separatist   and   Republic   navies. 
Coruscant became the Imperial throneworld after the inaugura­
tion   of   Emperor   Palpatine,   even   receiving   an   official   name 
change to Imperial Center.

The   New   Republic   captured   Coruscant   after   the   Battle   of 
Endor, their reign interrupted by a brief seizure of the world by 
the reborn Palpatine in 10 ABY. When the Yuuzhan Vong took 
Coruscant in 27 ABY, they blanketed the cityscape in vines and  
moss in an attempt to terraform the planet into the image of 
their ancestral homeworld Yuuzhan’tar.

 CORELLIA 
Type: Terrestrial
Temperature: Temperate
Atmosphere: Type I (Breathable)
Hydrosphere: Moderate
Gravity: Standard
Terrain: Urban, Oceans, Plains, Hills
Length of Day: 25 standard hours
Length of Year: 329 local days
Sapient Species: Human, Selonian, Drall, others
Starport: 1 Imperial Class, 3 Stellar Class, 4 Standard Class
Population: 3 billion
Planet Function: Trade & Administrative/Government
Government: Governor-General
Tech Level: Space
Major Exports: Foodstuffs, Medicinal Goods & Starships
Major Imports: High Technology

 CORUSCANT
Type: Terrestrial
Temperature: Temperate
Atmosphere: Type I (breathable)
Hydrosphere: Moderate
Gravity: Standard
Terrain: Urban
Length of Day: 24 standard hours
Length of Year: 368 local days
Sapient Species: Humans (N), various aliens
Starport: Imperial class
Population: 650 billion
Planet Function: Government, administrative
Government: Imperial bureaucracy
Tech Level: Space
Major Exports: None
Major Imports: Foodstuffs, medicinal goods

Coruscant

Dagobah

Although Coruscant is not the literal center of the galaxy, in 
terms of its political, economic, and cultural influence (not to 
mention its galactic coordinates of 0-0-0), it might as well be. 

In   prehistory,   Coruscant   served   as   a   battleground  between 
the Taungs and the human tribes of the Battalions of Zhell. The 
withdrawal of the Taungs to Roon left humans in sole possession 
of the world, and urbanization soon followed. The megalopolis 
that would one day become Galactic City is said to have already 
stood layer upon layer as early as 90,000 BBY.

The Rakata of the Infinite Empire assumed ownership of Cor­
uscant circa 30,000 BBY, providing technical clues that allowed 
the   Coruscantis   to  build   sleeper   ships   and  colonize   habitable 
worlds   over   the   course   of   decades.   Eventually   the   Infinite 
Empire  crumbled.  Due to Coruscant’s  position at  the  head  of 
several hyperspace routes, it became the capital of the emerging 
Galactic Republic.

It   has   been   described   as   a   “slimy   mudhole,”   and   indeed 
Dagobah’s most notable features — steamy humidity, stinging 
insects, and boot-sucking sogginess — are qualities that most 
humans hate. It is fortunate for humans that so few of them 
have ever been there.

Dagobah   sits   in   the   Sluis   sector   not   far   from   the   Rimma 
Trade Route, but the planet is reachable only via obscure hyper­
space   traces.   In  fact,   for  much   of   its   history  Dagobah  didn’t 
appear on star charts at all. This curious lack of cartographic 
permanence caused Dagobah to be scouted on more than one 
occasion, often  ending with  unpleasant consequences for the 
explorers. One Alderaanian expedition saw all its members eaten 
by local wildlife; another failed mission prior to the Clone Wars  
found its stranded scouts forced to resort to cannibalism.

Endor (Forrest Moon)

The   Forest   Moon   of   Endor   is   a   small   green 
sphere, the second of nine moons orbiting a sil­
ver-banded gas giant known to its native Ewoks 
as Tana. (Reports that the gas giant vanished in a 
cataclysm are false, and have become known as 
the   “Endor   Moon   Hoax.”)   The   Forest   Moon   has 
lighter-than-standard   gravity   and   an   ecosystem 
bursting with life, including three native sentient 
species.   The   Forest   Moon   is   also   home   to   cast­
aways:   Local   space   is   plagued   by   hyperspace 
anomalies that have wrecked starships from near­
by   Sanyassa   and   Zorbia,   as   well   as   transports 
belonging   to   starhoppers   hailing   from   far-off 
ports.

The Ewoks, the Forest Moon’s most famous res­
idents,   are   meter-high,   ursine   omnivores   who 
dwell in giant trees. Their technology is primitive, 
but the Ewoks are sound engineers and cunning 
warriors, as a legion of Imperial troops discovered 
during the Battle of Endor. In the time of the New Republic, a  
few Ewoks have sought their fortunes elsewhere in the galaxy, 
serving  as   starship  gunners  and  learning   (somewhat   squeaky) 
Basic. The peaceable Yuzzum dwell on the plains and the forest 
floor, and are known for their long legs, highly developed vocal 
cords,  and keen   ears. They  make  superb  singers,  and some  — 
including the Max Rebo Band’s Joh Yowza — have made careers 
for themselves with bands. The Gorax are often considered leg­
ends,   but   they   exist.   Fortunately,   these   vicious,   semi-sentient 
giants are quite rare.

Visited only by castaways, fugitives, and pilgrims before the 
Battle of Endor, the Forest Moon was home to Alliance forces 
for a time: after Emperor Palpatine died on the second Death 
Star overhead. Nagai invaders chased the Rebels off the moon, 
but they were followed by traders, intelligence agents, miners, 
souvenir hunters, and even tour groups. Endor was so remote, 
however, that interest proved fleeting; fifteen  years after the 
Alliance’s great victory, only one small trading post connected 
the Forest Moon with the rest of the galaxy.

 ENDOR’S MOON

Type: Terrestrial
Temperature: Temperate
Atmosphere: Type I (Breathable)
Hydrosphere: Moderate
Gravity: 85% Standard
Terrain: Forests, Savannas, Mountains
Length of Day: 18 standard hours
Length of Year: 402 local days
Sapient Species: Ewoks, Yuzzum, Dulok, and others
Starport: Limited Services (Landing port, seasonally staffed)
Population: 10 million
Planet Function: Homeworld, Trade
Government: Tribal (New Republic allied, non-participating member)
Tech Level: Stone
Major Exports: Foodstuffs, Medicinal Goods
Major Imports: none

Geonosis

A   hellish   world   scoured   by   radiation,   Geonosis   was   first 
explored   when   its   nearest   neighbor,   Tatooine,   was   settled   by 
miners   some   four   millennia   before   the   Battle   of   Yavin.   The 
Geonosians  were  fascinated  by  the  outsiders’ technology,  and

Permanent settlements have never taken root on Dagobah, 
but the planet is rich in living things. Its swampy surface is per­
petually pitched in shadow beneath a dense tree canopy. Its eat-
or-be-eaten ecosystem ranges between microscopic schools of 
silverfish   and   colossal,   vacuum-feeding   swamp   slugs.   The 
planet’s more notable life-forms include sharp-clawed dragon­
snakes, airborne bogwings, and gnarltrees — spider-like hunters 
that calcify into immobile root systems as they enter the second 
phase of their lives.

Dagobah is perhaps best known as the place of exile for Jedi 
Master Yoda following his failure to kill Emperor Palpatine in 19 
BBY. Yoda chose the location after noting it was one of thir­
ty-eight systems apparently dropped from the Jedi Archives. For 
over two decades the Jedi Master lived in a simple mud hut, 
shielded from the Emperor’s attention by a dark side cave — the 
residual energy left by a Dark Jedi from nearby Bpfassh — that 
counterbalanced Yoda’s light-side signature. Yoda trained Luke 
Skywalker in 3 ABY, but the Jedi Master died less than a year  
later at the age of nine hundred.

An effort to use Dagobah’s isolated yet strategic location to 
shelter a military intelligence outpost after the Battle of Endor 
met a swift end, and no attempts at settlement have been made 
since. Instead, Dagobah has become a place of pilgrimage for 
students of the new Jedi Order, who use the dark side cave to 
trigger Force-inspired vision quests.

 DAGOBAH
Type: Terrestrial
Temperature: Hot
Atmosphere: Type I (Breathable)
Hydrosphere: Moist
Gravity: Standard
Terrain: Swamp, Bogs, Jungles
Length of Day: 23 standard hours
Length of Year: 341 local days
Sapient Species: none
Starport: none
Population: none
Planet Function: Unexplored
Government: none
Tech Level: none
Major Exports: none
Major Imports: none

the hives proved adept at solving prob­
lems and finding efficiencies in devices’ 
function   and   production.
  The 
Geonosians   began  making  labor  droids 
In   their   own   image,   and   these   droids 
became   known   as   cheap,   simple,   and 
reliable models. 

But   contacts   between   the   Republic 
and   Arkanis   sector   proved   fleeting, 
Tatooine   was   abandoned   and   the 
Geonosians’ advances copied by corpo­
rations closer to the Core. And contact 
with outsiders caused a deep rift among 
the hives, a rift that soon exploded into 
savage warfare. 

As Geonosis dissolved into conflict, it was abandoned and all 
but forgotten until the Republic’s final centuries. The hive wars 
had finally ebbed, and scouts and traders once again made ten­
tative contact with the Geonosians. The hives eventually struck 
a distribution deal with the Baktoid Armor Workshop, returning 
their droids to the galactic market. 

The  Sith   Lord Darth  Sidious  thought  the  Geonosians’  skills 
were   wasted   on   labor   droids.   He   engineered   the   rise   of   the 
Geonosian rebel Poggle the Lesser, then used the planet’s Trade 
Federation connections to create an army of battle droids for his 
own schemes — as well as early plans for what would become 
the Death Star. In 22 BBY Geonosis was the site of a fateful 
meeting between Count Dooku and the leaders of the nascent 
Confederacy of Independent Systems. That was soon followed by 
the opening battle of the Clone Wars, joined when the Jedi Mas­
ter Yoda led a clone army from Kamino to Geonosis in time to 
rescue   Obi-Wan   Kenobi,   Anakin   Skywalker,   Padmé   Amidala   — 
and the Jedi Knights who’d been sent to rescue them.

The   Republic   occupied   Geonosis,   loath   to   let   its   droid 
foundries   fall   back   into   Separatist   hands.   The   Empire   kept   a 
tight grip on e system, nationalizing its output and forbidding 
corporate contacts with the hives. (Geonosian scientists contin­
ued to assist with the Death Star project and other Imperial war 
efforts.) The New Republic allowed the Geonosians to work as 
subcontractors once again, but maintained a right of refusal on 
all projects.

 GEONOSIS
Type: Terrestrial
Temperature: Hot
Hydrosphere: Arid
Atmosphere: Type I (breathable)
Gravity: 90% standard
Terrain: Rocks, desert, mountains
Length of Day: 30 standard hours
Length of Year: 256 standard days
Sapient Species: Geonosian
Spaceport: Limited services
Population: 390 Million
Tech Level: Space
Planet Function: Homeworld / Manufacturing
Government: Hive Council
Major imports: Raw materials (Metals, Minerals)
Major exports: Droids, High-Tech Weapons, Starfighters

Kamino

Given Kamino’s role in starting the Clone Wars and aiding the 
rise of Emperor Palpatine, it’s safe to say that no planet with 
such a low profile has ever wielded such massive influence.

Technically, Kamino isn’t part of the galaxy. It circles a star 
high above the galactic disk, loosely grouped with other fringe 
stars   at   the  lower  periphery  of the Ri-shi   Maze.  Kamino  was 
once   largely   landlocked,   with   eels   and   cetaceans   choking   its 
narrow   oceans   and   sleek-skinned   mammals   inhabiting   the 
marshes of the low-lying continents. From this stock arose the 
Kaminoans, long-necked humanoids exhibiting effortless grace 
on land and in water. The Kaminoans developed their planet’s 
coasts, their triumph being the parapet city of Derem.

Circa   19,000   BBY   abrupt   climatic   change   melted   Kamino’s 
glacial   reserves.   Within   two   centuries   every   landmass   sat 
beneath hundreds of meters of seawater, including Derem and 
architectural treasures such as the Clock Spires of Harai Nova. 

The Kaminoans lived on. Technology allowed them to move 
into water-shedding stilt cities, and the science of genetics per­
mitted the preservation of many drowned species through con­
trolled cloning. Genetic engineering soon shaped the Kaminoans 
themselves, as their pursuit of perfection resulted in near uni­
formity of thought, appearance, and mannerism. 

Ambitious parties from the Republic sought out Kamino as 
early as 4500 BBY. Kaminoan cloning proved far superior to the 
common Lurrian techniques, and the laboratories of Tipoca City 
soon filled orders both local (the shovel-handed miners of Sub­
terrel)   and   distant   (the   blind   berserkers   of   the   Unknown 
Regions’ Leech Legion). The Kaminoans also stocked their own 
pond, modifying Naboo’s soaring aiwhas to withstand Kamino’s 
crashing surf

  In  32  BBY Jedi   Master  Sifo-Dyas  hired  the  Kaminoans  to 
build a clone army for the Republic, though Darth Sidious guid­
ed the project to completion. Sidious even arranged the planet’s 
deletion from stellar databases to ensure the project’s secrecy. 
The vat-grown army lent its name to the Clone Wars from 22 to 
19 BBY, during which time Kamino came under attack from both 
the Separatists and the Mandalorians. 

The end of the war saw Kamino transformed into a fortified 
Imperial   possession,   dedicated   to   expanding  the   stormtrooper 
corps. In 12 BBY a clone uprising — orchestrated by disgruntled 
Kaminoan clonemasters — met a swift end at the hands of the 
501st Legion.

The collapse of the Empire in 4 ABY triggered an economic 
collapse on Kamino, as more than two decades of clone produc­
tion came to an end. The world continues to survive on smaller 
contracts, often for warlords and gangsters.

 KAMINO

Type: Terrestrial
Temperature: Temperate
Atmosphere: Type I (Breathable)
Hydrosphere: 100% Saturated
Gravity: Standard
Terrain: Aquatic (saturated hydrosphere)
Length of Day: 27 Standard Hours
Length of Year: 463 Local Days
Sapient Species: Kaminoan, Aiwha, Human & Sullustan
Starport: Imperial Class
Population: 1 Billion
Planet Function: Homeworld
Government: Ruling Council
Tech Level: Space
Major   Exports:  Clones,   Covert   technology,   Military   weapons   and 

hardware and fish

Major Imports: Droids and Foodstuffs

Naboo

Naboo, in the heart of the Mid Rim’s Chommell sector, was 
the site of a pivotal battle to shape galactic rule, as well as the 
homeworld of such diverse personages as Emperor Palpatine and 
Jar Jar Binks.

The planet is a world of peculiar geology. It lacks a molten 
core,  instead  possessing a  honeycombed interior  surging with 
luminous locap plasma. Wide, shallow seas (the domain of sando 
aqua   monsters  and other  giants) and  soggy swamps   separate 
flat   plains   of   nola   grass   and   scattered   points   of   elevation, 
including the Gallo Mountains.

The amphibious Gungans evolved on Naboo, creating a tribal, 
militaristic society to defend against bursa, a species of semi-
sentient   quadrupeds.   The   Gungans   are   also   believed   to   have 
clashed with Naboo’s first colonists — mysterious visitors who 
vacated the world more than five millennia ago and left only 
stone statues to mark their passing.

Humans arrived next, aboard a trio of colony ships from Griz­
mallt.   After   some   initial   hostility,   the   humans   and   Gungans 
entered an uneasy truce, with the Gungans retreating to their 
underwater bubble cities and the newcomers (thereafter known 
as the Naboo) colonizing the green continental hearts. Though

separated by geography, the two societies had their own inter­
nal wars — a clash between Gungan bosses in 3000 BBY led to 
the   establishment   of   the   ruling   city   of   Otoh   Gunga,   while 
Naboo’s “Time of Suffering” circa 1000-800 BBY ended with the 
inauguration of the planetary capital, Theed.

The planet governed its own affairs with an elected monarch, 
and spoke for the Chommell sector with a representative to the 
Galactic. Senate. In 32 BBY Queen Padmé Amidala (who suc­
ceeded King Veruna) and Senator Palpatine held the respective 
positions. Palpatine, in his guise as the Sith Lord Darth Sidious, 
arranged for a Trade Federation blockade and invasion of Naboo. 
The Jedi quelled the threat, but the incident vaulted Palpatine to 
the office of Supreme Chancellor, allowing him to orchestrate 
the Clone Wars and the rise of the Empire.

Amidala became Naboo’s Senator in 24 BBY, with the throne 
filled by Queen Jamillia, then Queen Apailana. Suspected of har­
boring Jedi fugitives after the Clone Wars, Apailana became a 
martyr   for   the   local   resistance   when   the   501st   Stormtrooper 
Legion assassinated her. Naboo also housed Emperor Palpatine’s 
private retreat, and Amidala’s former chief of security, Panaka, 
became Moff of the Chommell sector. But underground resis­
tance to the Empire remained lively, and the planet erupted in 
celebration following the news of Palpatine’s death.

 NABOO

Type: Terrestrial
Temperature: Temperate
Atmosphere: Type I (breathable)
Hydrosphere: Moderate
Gravity: Standard
Terrain: Forest, plain, swamp
Length of day: 26 standard hours
Length of year: 312 local days
Sapient Species: Humans, Gungans
Starport: Stellar
Population: 1.2 billion humans, Unknown number of Gungans
Planet Function: Cultural Center, Homeworld
Government: Democracy/Monarchy(humans), tribal (Gungans)
Tech Level: Space
Major Exports: Art
Major Imports: High technology

Tatooine

Avast   yellow   globe   baking   in   the   heat   of   its   twin   suns, 
Tatooine was mistaken for a star by early explorers of the Outer 
Rim — and in the scorching heat of high noon, locals joke that 
those explorers weren’t so wrong. Life on Tatooine is a study in 
perseverance, but despite the inhospitable conditions, there is 
life here. Jawas, hooded rodent-like scavengers, scour Tatooine’s 
wastes   for   scrap   they   can   salvage.   Primitive   desert   warriors 
called Tusken Raiders wander the desert, abiding by ancient trib­
al traditions. Herds of eopies root for buried lichen, rock warts 
hunt for prey, and an unlucky traveler may hear the booming 
cries of the semi-legendary krayt dragon. And there are more 
recent arrivals: humans, Hutts, and all manner of spacefaring 
species.

Despite what bored young moisture farmers might tell you, 
Tatooine is fairly well known in the galaxy. The system sits at a 
juncture of hyperspace routes: The Triellus Trade Route connects 
Hutt Space with a sizable chunk of the Outer Rim, while a loop 
of the Corellian Run sees traffic running to and from the Core 
Worlds. Space battles were common over Tatooine long before 
the planet’s settlement, and today Tatooine’s spaceports contin­
ue to thrive.

Settlers have tried to make Tatooine their home numerous 
times, with the first recorded settlements dating to 4200 BBY. 
That   attempt   and   many   others   failed;   current   civilization   on 
Tatooine dates back to 700 BBY, when the B’omarr monks made 
a   home   in   the   planet’s   desolation.   Around   100   BBY   miners 
arrived   Their   efforts   failed;   most   of   the   few   who   remained 
became moisture farmers. Around 65 BBY the Hutts — who’d 
long been a presence on the planet — took over Tatooine, seeing 
it as a useful point for transferring smuggled goods between the 
Corellian Run and the Triellus. The Hutts ruled the planet (in fact 
if not in name on those rare occasions when the Empire decided 
to assert itself) until the death of Jabba the Hutt shortly before 
the Battle of Endor. Various crime lords squabbled over Tatooine 
for a generation after Jabba’s demise, but their ambitions were 
scuttled when the Hutts returned after the Yuuzhan Vong dev­
astated parts of Hutt Space. 

 TATOOINE
Type: Terrestrial
Temperature: Hot
Atmosphere: Type I (breathable)
Hydrosphere: Dry
Gravity: Standard
Terrain: Desert
Length of Day: 23 standard hours
Length of Year: 304 local days
Sapient Species: Humans, Jawas, Tusken Raiders
Starport: Standard class
Population: 80,000 (Estimated)
Planet Function: Smuggling, trade, subsistence
Government: Imperial Governor
Tech Level: Space
Major   Exports:  Various   smuggled   cargoes   (munitions,   security 

devices, spice), minerals (salt, sand products)

Major Imports: Mid-technology, high-technology: metals, foodstuffs, 

chemicals

Yavin 4

Yavin 4 is a jungle moon in an unremarkable system far from 
busy space lanes. Yet if the Force has a will, Yavin 4 must be one  
of its favorite fulcrums. Several events on or near Yavin 4 have 
shaken the galaxy: a climactic battle between the Jedi and the 
Sith;   the   Rebel   raid   that   destroyed   the   first   Death   Star;   the 
birthplace of a new Jedi Order to support the reborn Republic; 
and the founding of a heresy that would one day help derail the 
Yuuzhan Vong invasion.

If not for its history, Yavin 4 would be of interest chiefly for 
its abundance of life. The moon is covered with Massassi trees, 
which   feature   huge   crowns   and   upsweeping   branches.   These 
great trees support climbing ferns and nebula orchids, and their 
bark   and   leaves   create   thick   mulch   that   nourishes   blueleaf 
shrubs. Woolamanders, whisper birds, suntan’s, anglers, piranha-
beetles,   and   runyips   live   here,   along   with   strange   creatures 
descended from ancient Sith experiments.

Yavin 4 was first settled by the Sith Lord Naga Sadow and his 
minions, among them the Sith warriors known as the Massassi. 
At the end of the Sith War, the Jedi chased the renegade Exar  
Kun to Yavin 4 and burned off much of its jungle cover in an  
orbital  bombardment,  later reversing  some of the damage by 
establishing a subterranean terraforming station. The Jedi also 
expunged all record of the moon — then beyond the galactic 
frontier — in an effort to end its evil legacy. Hyperspace scouts 
from the Hydian Way rediscovered the system, which was the 
site of a brief rush on Corusca stones found in the depths of the 
gas giant Yavin. During the Galactic Civil War, Rebels abandon­
ing Dantooine established a new base in the abandoned Great 
Temple of the Massassi. They were tracked there by the Death 
Star,   but   Luke   Skywalker   destroyed   the   battle   station   with   a 
well-placed shot from his X-wing starfighter.

Yavin   4   was   soon   abandoned   It   remained   little-visited   for 
more than a decade, until Skywalker returned to establish a Jedi 
academy on the jungle moon. The academy endured for more 
than ten years. Then the Yuuzhan Vong established it as a colony 
for their Shaper caste. While trapped on Yavin 4, the Jedi Anakin 
Solo helped redeem a Yuuzhan Vong Shamed One, inadvertently 
giving rise to a  Jeedai  cult that would one day undermine the 
invaders’ beliefs.

 YAVIN 4

Type: Terrestrial Satellite (Moon)
Temperature: Hot
Atmosphere: Type I (breathable)
Hydrosphere: Moist
Gravity: Standard
Terrain: Jungle, mountain, swamp
Length of Day: 24 standard hours
Length of Year: 13.2 standard years
Starport: Landing Field
Planet Function:  Abandoned hidden base (formerly Headquarter  of 

the Rebels year 0 BBY)

Government: None
Sapient Species: Massassi (extinct millenias ago)
Population: no permanent population
Tech Level: none
Major Exports: none
Major Imports: none
